RED — Cluster 5: Fresh, mineral, well-balanced reds with honest grip
1,019 wines total | 200 sampled
============================================================

[1]
Fresh, with bright, spicy and woodsmoke tones, lovely acidity and fine tannin. The oak is well judged and there's a resinous, balsamic edge to the long finish.

[2]
A light-bodied, tight and brisk Syrah with good acidity and crunchy tannins. Lively, snappy and drinkable. A touch of tomato stalk and oregano.

[3]
Smooth, satin-textured, fine and elegant palate. Plenty of fruit and concentration. Quite a dark and savoury style, structured and fresh.

[4]
Juicy with excellent texture. Tannins are filling but so well integrated they edge the mouth rather than dominate it with a cooling, minty blueberry aspect too. Nuanced and layered and already approachable. Seamless, textured and mineral. Classic.

[5]
This St-Julien is exceptionally good value, drinking beautifully now with its softening fine-grained tannins, crème de cassis and savoury meatiness, but also happy to spend another while in the cellar.

[6]
Fresh, ripe, juicy and well judged. All very neat and delicious on the palate, which shows a good sense of freshness and vibrancy, with some length. Compact and fresh.

[7]
Fresh, peppery nose followed by a full-bodied palate with a considerable tannic load. Blackberry, black cherry and considerable concentration, with a mineral finish.

[8]
Good depth of colour. The oak is really quite noticeable here, but it works, helping to round out the tannins and give some sweetness to the fruit. Really quite robustly tannic, this will take time to come round. The acidity is piercing too. A highly structured Gigondas with more depth than most this year – fully ripe in flavour.

[9]
Nicely scented, rich and vibrant on the nose with dark cherry aromatics. Smooth and succulent, high acidity gives bite with a chalky undercurrent. Good persistence and purity to the fruit aspects with some smoky, char toasted elements on the finish that lend some bitterness. Focussed, lifted and finessed.

[10]
Herbal juniper, rosemary, red fruits and spice. Good acidity and an edge to the tannins. Lighter, more compact style. Good length, transparency and detail.

[11]
Relatively pale in colour. This is very herbal on the nose, showing notes of thyme and rosemary, carrying through to the palate along with soft red berry fruits. The acidity is quite high, as is the alcohol. It does have tannic ripeness and finesse however; it is really grippy. Enjoyably pure, mineral and juicy, but give this time.

[12]
Nice Cabernet touches on the nose and palate with just-grippy tannins, juicy red berry fruit and a chalky, mineral finish. Not as concentrated as some but acidity is well balanced giving lift.

[13]
Very much a product of its volcanic, maritime terroir, this has really super freshness and minerality, allied with bright cherry fruit, blood orange notes, dried herbs and white pepper. Medium-bodied with nice grip and a savoury smack on the finish.

[14]
Round and juicy, clean and clear, nice sense of bounce and persistence to this. Sleek and straight, a mineral firm core. Great length, really excellent with so much menthol minerality and freshness. Appealing, all in balance and harmony with great tannins expression. Delicious, moreish, generous and so charming. Pretty and well built, still with structure and chalky tannins but great persistence and sense of restraint. Cool and classy.

[15]
Restrained and refined, moderate concentration of fruit, a firm structure and a pleasant finish. This will benefit from further ageing.

[16]
Some cheeky oak on the nose, but lovely juicy, ripe black fruit on the palate. Enjoyably tannic and structured, with some salinity on the finish. Good length.

[17]
Fresh, bright and lively nose. Rounded, juicy and welcoming, this is lovely, vibrant and well balanced, with good grip and elegant tannins. This has class, well-made without excessive extraction.

[18]
A very silky and approachable style, with velvety fruit and soft, fine tannins. This is a Gigondas to enjoy in its youth. Elegant red fruit aromas, combining raspberry, strawberry and redcurrant. The alcohol is gently warming. Reductive on opening.

[19]
Pine-basil duo on the early nose - it comes with a meat stock and cassis intensity. There is structure here and some fine flavours.

[20]
An interesting nose, with some herbal notes and an underlying smokiness. Medium-bodied, smooth and generous, with great energy and vibrancy on the palate. Harmonious, balanced and fine.

[21]
Gorgeous fragrance, really ripe and expressive, so floral and perfumed too. Lovely pure aromatic expression. Ripe but juicy raspberry and black cherry fruit - cool and so refreshing. Gentle style, smooth with tannins that give body but no weight. More vertical than wide, it's layered and delicate. Finessed. Lithe, supple, mouthwatering, a certain density is there and the length is great. Cool but chalky too. Power here in the fleshiness but it's juicy with a touch of oak and enjoyable bitterness on the finish.

[22]
Rich and warm, but super drinkable, this is a dry wine but with a brown sugar sweetness to the fruit, and juicy damson jam flavours. Good freshness, despite the age.

[23]
Nice aromatics, floral and red berry tones. Crisp and crunchy red fruit, high acidity but not too tart which then turns a little creamy with a soft powderiness to the tannins on the finish. This has a good lift and is well made, with cool fresh tones throughout. It's still a little lean and austere - fairly light and tapered but has an element of class with lots of drinkability.

[24]
Very full-bodied and concentrated for a Côtes du Rhône. Really mouthcoating, with intense acidity and drive. Packs an impressive tannic load that's ripe and dense. Finishes very long.

[25]
Deep, herbal menthol freshness is followed by a lovely bright, fresh palate. There's a good sense of ripeness to the fruit and zesty acidity. No great length, but a fantastic burst of fruit, and a lick of granite on the finish. Very mineral style.

[26]
Medium- to full-bodied, this is in great shape still, with snappy acidity combined with deep umami notes of dried porcini mushrooms on the very long finish. Firework smoke on the nose. Really fresh, complex, with enjoyably Cornas strict tannins and a saline finish. One of the best vintages of Granit 60, up there with the 2020.

[27]
Strong clove oak tones running through this unusually concentrated 2024. Gently warming, ripe and darkly fruited, with good length of fruit, this will last longer than most 2024s. Rich and velvety if not terribly concentrated, but has good finesse. Very Côte Brune in its dark, bassy tones.

[28]
Sleek and shiny, full of bright berry fruit with a really clean and pristine core of flavour. Juicy but concentrated too, really good balance with nuance of tobacco and dark chocolate that give accents but don't overpower. Cool and fresh with a minty, wet stone finish.

[29]
A full-bodied Grenache (70%) and Syrah blend that combines intense, ripe, spicy black cherries and dried herbs with a savoury minerality. The long, complex finish punches well above its price.

[30]
Amazing nose: cocoa, vanilla pod, cardamom, wood smoke. Medium- to full-bodied, with lovely palate freshness and lovely ripe core to the black fruit. Plentiful tannin, but they're fine; the alcohol is in balance. A great Southern Syrah in the making.

[31]
They're a perfect match for each other – the Cinsault fresh and fruity, and the Syrah more powerful, tannic and spicy. This is deeply flavoured, with plump dark cherry berry fruit, spice and tobacco hints. Generous and open, but with elegance.

[32]
Some smoky, roasting pan aromas, along with damson and blackberry fruit. It's open, complex and ready for business. Potpourri notes come with air. Lean and athletic on the palate, showing good acidity and no huge concentration, but it's wonderfully textural and herbal, with a long, smoky finish. Big impact, with quite a fierce attack on the palate, yet it's cleansing and enlivening.

[33]
Textbook reserva, with a restrained nose and balanced, open, suave expression on the palate. It's full bodied and has depth and intensity with velvety tannins and a long, penetrating finish.

[34]
Much more relaxed on the palate than younger vintages, it's friendly and very attractive. Still full of rich fruits, very succulent, with plum, damson and strawberry. It has some lovely acidity and smoky notes throughout. Great length.

[35]
Tangy berry acidity, remarkable length of chewy blackberry coulis and liquorice, with enough interest on the nose to keep you sniffing.

[36]
Toasty oak on the nose ; on palate chimes in quite nicely with sweet cassis fruit to add cinnamon and clove at the end.

[37]
Really perfumed and expressive on the nose, lots of fragrance - dark purple flowers, blackcurrants, highly perfumed. Smells quite intense. Supple and agile, this has nice movement with plush tannins and chewy strawberry fruit with high acidity to balance the texture. Round and full in the mouth, fleshy but with a clean limestone, graphite undercurrent. Full bodied for the vintage, generous and super charming, the juicy and chunky fruit giving width and depth to the body. Not streamlined as such as the texture and tannins are more present but there's a nice vein of minerality that keeps the direction. Sweet, sour, tart and chalky. A bit firm, but there's great structure. Generous and super charming. Easy to drink.

[38]
Engaging aromas that are super fresh, as is the palate. Really juicy and vibrant, great surging acidity and little plaquettes of layered tannin like tiny leaves. Needs time to fully harmonise, but it has plenty of time. Will be very good, in a tight, tense, vibrant style when it's ready.

[39]
Blackberry, dried blood and thyme aromas. Richer fruit and firmer tannins than his cuvée Juliette; very clean and pure. Has a wonderful surge of acidity, freshness and purity on the finish. Wonderfully expressive and drinkable with cleansing tannins.

[40]
Rich ripe fruit but with no heaviness. Tannins are super fine and this has flesh and chew but in a really good way. This is still marked by toast, cedar and clove and there's a hot, spiced aspect that lingers. Highly charged, potent and concentrated but with structure.

[41]
Curranty and rich on the nose with an introverted profile, this has density and chew on the palate but will need further time in bottle to open up. It's a little brawny and backward at the moment, with burly tannins locking down the finish.

[42]
If nothing remains after cleaning, return the original unchanged.

The 2005 vintage was heralded as a 5 star year.

[43]
This has no oak influence. The winemaking accentuates the fruit, and there's a fragrance of black plum and forest fruits. Medium- to full-bodied, with brightness, good acidity and a lovely purity of flavour.

[44]
There have of course been great vintages since 2005, but the top examples from this year...

[45]
It's not locked up and inexpressive; it's very young for sure, but offers a lot of pleasure right now. It has the classic throne-like shape and squared-off tannic structure, but is so elegant, so fine, so compelling – a magical wine.

[46]
Deep blackberry aromas, in a strong and punchy style. It's a concentrated style, with a strong tannic base. It has very dark fruit. Much darker, with more tannins that are a little more rugged. This will take longer to come round, and likely close up when young. Very long, good concentration and good acidity in a tense, mineral style.

[47]
Rich ripe cherry nose, with a good dose of oak. Rich, full-bodied, generous, an upfront style that's super-ripe. Has little finesse but abundant fruit and a lightly tannic finish.

[48]
Lovely clarity and precision on the palate. Juicy and clean, well balanced in terms of fruit purity, crisp minerality and firmness with a cooling, minty fresh edge. Crystalline, lifted and focussed. Still a little shy and tight but there's great focus and direction here.

[49]
Slightly stewed fruits with a lovely chalky minerality. Tarry and bold; there is a lovely core of structured fruit here with fresh acidity and a medium body.

[50]
Strawberry fruit combines with Provencçl herb notes. This is full-bodied, juicy and approachable for a 2022, and not overly tannic. The alcohol is quite warming but this has good concentration and ripeness.

[51]
Darker in fruit than some 2024s, this is introverted for now, very young. It's ripe on the palate, easy to like, welcoming and enticing. Lovely weight of fruit, and well-judged oak that doesn't dominate. This has ample length and concentration.

[52]
Such a gorgeous nose, very classically Gigondas, with savoury red berry fruit, garrigue herbs and liquorice. Medium-bodied but very concentrated, with piercing acidity and slightly dry, fibrous tannin to close due to the large proportion of Syrah in this hot vintage. It has energy and verve.

[53]
Ripe and forward on the nose and palate, fresh and upfront. A kick of life initially, bright and a little high toned but this will calm down in time. Still a touch strict and severe on the finish with lots of spice and ripe bramble berries throughout but there's a nice amount of juiciness and touch of minerality on the finish.

[54]
Full-bodied but well balanced, with ripe plum fruit and hints of smoky bacon. The wood registers as just a light touch.

[55]
Dark and concentrated in colour. Assertive aromatics, coming mostly from the fruit, with some spice from the oak. Then very concentrated for a 2024, tight on the palate, balanced acidity and alcohol, leading to a long finish. This is more concentrated and punchy than many 2024s, no lack of dark fruit.

[56]
Although it shows some tannic tightness, the very nice lovely floral aromatics along with graphite make this just lovely. The palate shows off subtle opulence with balancing tension. Long finish.

[57]
This wine is so fruity, opening with blueberries and Maraschino cherries, rich and ripe, but also with a little stemmy herbal tone underneath. It is just bursting with blue fruit. Plump, ripe and rounded, all front-loaded fruit, but it finishes super dry, with a really long cool minty finish. The tannins are present but generally very gentle.

[58]
There's a lovely red fruit lift to the aromas here: strawberry, roses, violets. Then the palate is delightful, full of freshness and acidity, really gushing and flowing, building and filling the mouth. Then a rugged wild herb note rushes in, and it finishes chewy and fresh. Crunchy, drinkable, digestible, but also serious.

[59]
An interesting nose that has some balsamic notes, black fruit, red fruit and spice. It's full-bodied, rich and ripe, with powerful tannins and warming alcohol. An impressive, punchy Gigondas.

[60]
Quite austere and lean, focussed but refreshing with high acidity and quite chalky, powdery tannins but a straight overall expression. Fruit is clean and pure - raspberry, blackcurrant and black cherry. Doesn't really deviate from the core. It's a soft, gentle expression with present but not imposing tannins that give the structure and creates the textured mouthfeel all the way through. Some liquorice and dark chocolate on the finish. Lovely classicism on offer with plenty of Cabernet character.

[61]
Rich black cherry nose, solid fruit. Full and viscous, but with some nice cassis definition on the palate; the tannins kick in and add complexity and grip. An elegant and complex wine with well-integrated oak.

[62]
Super fragrant and alive on the nose, floral, ripe black fruits. Juicy and so clean, clearly ripe but lovely texture to the tannins, grippy, almost chewy but this also has licks of slate, minerality, graphite and dark chocolate. I love the interplay between menthol, bitter dark chocolate and ripe blackcurrants. Still a touch coiled on the finish, but this has good potential. Great mouthfeel, very Pomerol, with a strong, liquorice and herbal finish.

[63]
This has a compelling, complex nose already, layers of black and red fruit with appealing spice notes. Fairly full-bodied, no lack of concentration and some bright acidity all add up to an impressive, refreshing Côtes du Rhône with several years of staying power.

[64]
A lovely fragrance of warm spices and incense. Rounded and fruity but very fresh. Good intensity and grip. Opulent and seductive, not overly ripe or jammy. Oak is well integrated for an opulent style.

[65]
Supple and agile in the mouth but intensely tannic and grippy too - they coat the entire mouth but with a soft, charming fleshiness that is so appealing. Round, full, but calm and generous. Velvety texture, almost sweet red and black cherry fruit with a wonderfully saline finish. There's nothing too over the top here. Fresh, clean and clear.

[66]
Intensely fragrant on the nose, almost heady, rich in violet and rose aromatics as well as ripe, dark berry fruit. Chewy and nicely fleshy - so you get the impact of the present tannins but there's a really clean, juicy, precise aspect too which you get from the acidity and fruit that keeps this bright and alive. It's not quite harmonious yet, this is a bold and structured wine, but with plenty of life in it. So much concentrated flavour here, no harshness just a lot of wine here.

[67]
There's a smoky touch to the black cherry fruits on the nose. Then it's medium-bodied but has plenty of intensity and concentration. Fresh and fluid but also pretty punchy.

[68]
Very black in the glass, with aromas of black pepper and cinnamon. Only medium-bodied, but fresh and direct, with a focused feel, it's so enlivening on the palate. Although it has driving, blackcurrant-like acidity, it finishes quite tight, and there's ample tannin but it needs time to soften.

[69]
Gorgeous fragrance, dried flowers give a lovely perfumed aspect, some cool blue fruit, liquorice and slate. Succulent and juicy, mouthwatering instantly, with a real push of strawberry fruit - pristine and clear - with fine tannins that give a nice crushed stone flavour to the palate. Smooth and long. It's structured and well built but given such energy from the acidity. Beautiful and serious. Some toasted spice on the finish.

[70]
Rich aromatics on the nose, smells deep and dark with violet tones on the nose. Supple and loads of energy straight away, super bright - lively but also quite lean and mineral - a good burst initially but settles quite quickly with chalky tannins that coat the mouth in a fine powdery layer. A little tight and constricted with the structure taking over the fruity acidity. Has some finesse and a really long length filled with mint, bramble herbs, lots of aniseed and liquorice spice. Structured and elegant.

[71]
Still deeply coloured. Taking on a lovely earthy dimension now, into its second phase of maturity. Lovely freshness and generosity. Has punchy tannins and immense length. Really lovely generosity and texture. Still quite heady in alcohol but very appealing.

[72]
Great concentration, great driving surge of fruit, and very harmonious. It's ripe and powerful, more so than most 2024s, with correspondingly raised alcohol. Amazing freshness and acidity help to balance this however. With its big tannic frame, it's going to take time for this to harmonise, but it will be one hell of a wine when it does.

[73]
Tart fruit, a little sour and wincey. Liquorice and wet stone-edged tannins give this tension and zing but aren't so friendly right now. The tobacco and dryness on the finish is still prominent.

[74]
Brambly, expressive, full-bodied, all nicely ripe and concentrated. It's still fresh though, with a mass of ripe tannin that should help this stay the course.

[75]
Spicy, peppery nose with star anise and clove. Attractive freshness, subtle floral notes behind the spice and smoke. Compact, well balanced and highly drinkable style, with good length. An elegant, appealing wine that doesn't shout, it's just quietly confident.

[76]
Very pretty raspberry fruit defines this wine, which is very fresh with bright acidity and soft, ripe tannins. Oak is very well integrated and this is an elegant and fine reserva with a chalky lift.

[77]
Pale red, with a watery rim. Slight peppery note to the red fruits. Fuller in body, it has a bit more generosity and depth. Juicy, with some tight, fine tannins and good acidity. Slightly earthy, finishing on black cherry. Very drinkable. Shows the potential of this underappreciated variety.

[78]
Deep colour, lifted on the nose with floral notes combining with cassis and spice. Smooth, rounded and plush on the palate with lovely acidity, refined tannins and very well-integrated oak. Ready now, but this has the concentration to last at least 3-5 years.

[79]
Delicately structured, fragrant and savoury. Well integrated tannins and a fresh structure, good medium term drinking.

[80]
Perfumed raspberry and wild strawberry aromas, although a little subtle. Fairly light in body, but more juicy red fruits on the palate. The fine tannins are sufficiently ripe, and the acidity is fresh. A very drinkable, lighter style of Rasteau.

[81]
Medium-bodied, crunchy style with raspberry and pomegranate. Marked acidity and quite defined tannins. Has good energy, a slimmer vintage than some recent examples, and a savoury core. Very fresh.

[82]
Raspberry, wild strawberry, pine needles, subtle smoke. Very juicy, plump, attractive on the palate. Really fresh, very fine tannins, such great balance. Not the longest finish, but this is very good indeed.

[83]
Well made with ample juice alongside rich black and red fruit flavours. Touches of oak add to the structure while the acidity gives drive and lift.

[84]
Here we are fully crossing the threshold into younger, more primary aromatics, but they are also well integrated, beautifully softened and...

[85]
Grassy, floral, perfumed style, albeit lightly reductive at the time of tasting. Full-bodied but only just; no heaviness, very fresh. Juicy and vibrant. Lovely acidity. Great purity and freshness, and also a serious structure. Amazing intensity. Give it time for the tannins to soften and meld; then this should offer immense pleasure and drinkability.

[86]
Strongly aromatic on the nose, vivid pink/purple in the glass, amazing vibrancy to the colour. Bright and buzzy, great energy, a little powdery with the tannins at the fore giving the structure but good length and balance and weight. Grippy, expansive and fresh, lots of life and cool crunchy blue and red fruit at the fore. Ends dry and powdery. Feels a little subdued and taken over by the structure right now but there's clearly power on show. Could be lovely in time.

[87]
Deeply coloured for a Cinsault. A vibrant, juicy, fresh expression. Light in tannin, crisp and well balanced, with lovely red berry fruit. Very smashable, with a little bitter twang on the finish.

[88]
Lovely nose that's complex already, with wood smoke, roasted meat and peppery herbs. With a fine and silky palate, only medium-bodied, with good acidity and focus. There's a balsamic note on the finish, and it's slightly drying, with a subtle farmyard tang. Detailed, drinkable and enjoyable; drink young.

[89]
This is good, it has some concentration, enough to deliver some Châteauneuf boldness of fruit. Springy tannins and enough alcohol to provide richness and texture. Not a big wine, but has finesse.

[90]
Toast, hay and straw notes on the nose with some preserved lemon and slight bitter edges. Zingy and alive, upfront in the mouth, lovely shot of citrus acidity but with a nice bitter edge to the palate as well as clear saltiness. Relatively straight and direct but there's a hint of weight too. Clear minerality.

[91]
Crunchy and clean, this has a lovely dollop of strawberry and red cherry fruit with quite lean, mineral-edged tannins that give this some tension and straightness. Juicy and nice.

[92]
Ripe blackcurrant and cherry fruit on the nose. Fleshy and sun kissed, this has power and structure with plenty of heft although there's bright acidity to keep it lifted. Lots of stony minerality around the sides and ends on a wet stone, salty note. It's full of interest, it has complexity, layers and great acidity. Still lots of power but has potential.

[93]
Packed full of bright plump fruit, blueberries, sweet sticky cherries, this has a really turbo-charged fruit profile. Tasty and sweet-fruited, it's fairly rich but still fresh. A medium tannic structure lends support to this wine.

[94]
A little more reductive than most on the nose. On the palate, very fresh and fluid, with good acidity running through the raspberry and wild strawberry fruits. Light and snappy, gluggable northern Rhône Syrah. Contemporary in style.

[95]
Nicely balanced and full of vitality, slightly smoky fragrance with perfumed dark berries. In the mouth it's intense, zesty and saline, with fine tannins offering gentle support. Lip-smacking stuff, and super-fresh.

[96]
Perfumed purple berries - plum and damson on the palate. Lots of florality, really scented and expressive. Juicy and supple, nicely agile and energetic - great weight, no heaviness, really complete and covers the mouth in a powdery soft fleshiness, not heavy but not light. A balanced wine with plenty of underlying power and fruit forwardness. Gently layered - great acidity, juiciness and sense of ease to this. Gentle, smooth, charming, round, fresh and cool.

[97]
Big on aroma, with a mix of both cassis and stemmy fruit, grapes and plums. Racy acidity brings lots of freshness here, and there's decent palate depth, with barely noticeable tannins. Spicy and crunchy. Not massively ageworthy, but very drinkable.

[98]
Juicy and bright, this has a lively quality with pronounced, high acidity but is verging on a little tart and sour with a spiced finish. Tannins are finely integrated but this seems a little disjointed right now. Ends stony with liquorice, slate and cedar spice. Needs time to soften and integrate.

[99]
Really quite ripe on the nose, this has deep succulent strawberry fruit. It's generous, fruity, and very elegant, with good length. More fruit and density than most 2024s. The tannins are ripe and juicy.

[100]
This Rioja Reserva is surprisingly reticent on the nose, and could well benefit from decanting. Some Riojas give you strawberry and cream flavours, but this is more about firm red plum and black cherry fruit. There's also a hint of pine needles, and some sweet oak woody spice. Quite a grippy style, less generous than some might expect.

[101]
Perfumed kirsch and pomegranate aromas. Strawberry and wild herbs with air. Full-bodied, juicy, spherical - has the weight and shape of exceptional Grenache. Superfine tannins, bright acidity and only moderate alcohol – this has rare balance and purity. You can drink this now, but it will age gracefully. Limestone mineral buzz.

[102]
This has a nice weight on the palate with full and fleshy tannins although a cool blue fruit character. The expression is a little overtaken by wood at the moment, giving some dry, cedar elements which cover up some of the fruit but this should integrate over time.

[103]
This has a savoury nose and a lively blackcurrant and berry palate boasting black pepper spiciness. Serious, but smooth and supple, and ever so easy to drink.

[104]
Generous blue fruit reigns in this Merlot-dominant Bordeaux blend, underlined by a silky structure and persistent freshness.

[105]
Dark and complex, with spicy roast coffee and black fruit. A big, bold flavourful wine, the tannins nicely tamed. Traditional in a good way, with some very positive maturation. Deep, rich, oaky nose. The palate is rich, too, but with some good freshness on the finish. A lot of oak but it's in balance. Leathery and fruity. A little straightforward, with plum and red fruits. Somewhat dry on the finish, but there's nice vibrancy.

[106]
Lighter in body than a typical vintage but fresh, approachable and crisp with defined berry fruits. Fresh and crunchy. Will provide refreshing drinking young and is likely to be very good with age as well.

[107]
Medium- to full-bodied, this has real intensity on the palate, the dark fruits interwoven with subtle incense and sandalwood notes. It builds on the palate, it's generous and unmistakably southern Rhône. Good now, and will last and improve for several years.

[108]
Lots of iron and blood, it smells like a rare steak. Only medium-bodied, it's brisk and fresh, with a good sense of tension and acidity. Taut, with a tremulous finish. Has a certain athletic side to its nature. It's not overly generous in fruit, just very classic Cornas.

[109]
Grippy and smoky, with blackberry and strawberry fruits. A touch dilute compared to some vintages, but this has good acidity, and a medium- to -full body. A touch of warming alcohol on the long, tapered, smoky finish.

[110]
Sweet oak and dried cherry. Polished and supple, with quite a chunky backbone of tannins and acidity. Dense, concentrated nose, smoky, some maturity of fruit, leather and tobacco. Still some fruit concentration, harmonious. Lively, fruity with nicely integrated oak. Vibrant, long-lasting, precise.

[111]
Slightly darker fruit expression, this has blackberry, plum and raspberry with a touch of menthol and thyme. Still only just medium-bodied, this has an inner fruit ripeness and slight silkiness on the palate that's balanced by bright acidity. Finishes with fine, gentle tannins, akin to fine tea. As it's so fresh, this will drink well young and into the medium term. Just the slightest touch of bitterness from the stems on the finish.

[112]
Pale cherry colour. The nose is between floral and spicy, it's detailed and attractive. It has weight on the palate, although only medium-bodied, with good acidity; the tannins are a touch bitter. Some dried Provençal herbs appear on the palate. Very drinkable; no great wealth of fruit on the mid-palate, it's more about the immediate impact and structured finish.

[113]
Dark fruit, violet notes, black cherries and touches of liquorice. Supple and lively, really tangy and zesty, bright but not over the top with such a creamy, chalky texture giving a soft grip. Generous but controlled, there's concentration but keeps such a cool blue fruit edge which gives freshness and the minerality doesn't stick out at all. Expressive and elegant, but with body and something to get your teeth stuck into. Lovely suppleness but finally ends grippy and stony with the salinity lingering on the very long finish with mint, liquorice and clove. Characterful.

[114]
Really ripe and aromatic nose, so floral and fragranced - high charged and perfumed. Strong and full, quite ripe in the mouth, a little tight, lots of tense tannins and toasted oak touches just restricting the final flavour and overall expression. Not so charming, very linear and strict but there's also purity and detail with a core of deep black fruit.

[115]
Black fruit, bramble berries on the nose - smells lovely and enticing. Easy and smooth, this has a chalky base with slightly firm, grippy tannins with cooling blue and black fruit. A touch of liquorice and wet stone adds interest. Unfussy and so approachable with a long tobacco-tinged finish.

[116]
Strangely heightened blood orange and beetroot aromas. Rather soft and cushiony, but then tannins creep up on the mid-palate and give some grip.

[117]
Subtle brambly fruit on the nose peppered with menthol and thyme. Mouthwatering and succulent, with really tasty, chewy, textural tannins - not harsh, just present. Smooth and crowd-pleasing.

[118]
Fragrant raspberries and blackcurrants on the nose with floral touches too. Vivid purple in the glass. Some herbal notes, liquorice and menthol/eucalyptus. Nicely structured, good bounce and flesh but cool and sleek too. Good weight, enough tannins, well integrated, with structure and power. Not heavy, clear vein of freshness. Lots of cool blueberry, mint, graphite and liquorice on the finish. Almost chewy, but clean and direct. Finessed but with power and depth.

[119]
Blueberry and crisp cranberry fruit on the nose and palate, this is fun and lively - focusing on bright and clean fruit with nicely lively acidity which gives this a lifted feeling. It has density though, textured and filling, this feels well made with plenty of complexity and nuance. Great crystalline fruit, so pure and precise. It's not a blockbuster but it's yummy.

[120]
Rich, succulent plums, myrtle and vanilla underpinned by a bright acidity; gentle and creamy with a lifted fresh finish.

[121]
Wild aromas, spicy and sauvage. Nutmeg, then pink peppercorns come with air. There's warmth and generosity of fruit on the palate, and a lovely woody (not oaky) side to the aromas and flavours. Slightly warming alcohol even, which is surprising for a cool climate region. Good length of fruit and spice. Should age well, but is very good now.

[122]
Good depth of colour, but not opaque. Violet, blueberry, liquorice and juniper aromas. Really quite punchy on the palate, it has concentration and structure, warming alcohol and good length. The tannins are a touch green. One of the fullest, most concentrated and densest wines in their varietal range.

[123]
More concentrated, this has punchy, animated fruit and nice driving acidity on the long finish. Tannins are ripe, well managed. Well-balanced, dynamic style.

[124]
A little compact and full in the mouth right now with a build up of chalky tannins and dark fruit - blackcurrants, cedar, liquorice and tobacco. Chalky, stony and cool but still somewhat covered by the oak right now. A bit serious.

[125]
It's full bodied, with an overriding olive tapenade character, allied to dark and juicy forest fruits.

[126]
Very powerful, with big, dense, muscular tannins. Immense concentration, energy and salinity, so it will certainly age, and will always be oaky. An absolutely huge wine!

[127]
Very appealing, bright and attractive Grenache fruit, with crushed strawberry and citrus peel notes. It has some juicy glycerol and measured alcohol making up the body here rather than tannin; the tannins are present, fine and gentle. Salinity also plays a part, as does fresh acidity. Not hugely concentrated, but the fruit is very pure, delicate and appealing. One to drink now, with much pleasure.

[128]
This is outstanding value for a classically rich, deeply flavoured and spicy but nicely poised and polished Barossa Shiraz, with a beguiling and freshening herbal-medicinal lilt.

[129]
Purity, vibrancy and freshness in this blend. Crunchy red and blue fruit mingle on the palate supported by vibrant acid and zesty tannins. So drinkable but never simple, with alluring layer of fruit, herbs and sotobosque.

[130]
Gorgeous perfumed scents on the nose, smells heady and scented. A wonderful texture and harmony to this wine, everything in balance. The fruit is perfectly matched to the acidity and tannins so you get a really enjoyable and coherent glass of wine with flavour, structure and length. This also has a touch of richness to the fruit profile. Glossy.

[131]
Lovely lifted berry aromas and wood spice nicely intertwined, ready to drink now. No excess weight, medium-bodied; has all the upright freshness and tension you want from a Massif d'Uchaux.

[132]
Appealing fragrant raspberry aromas. This is soft, juicy and rounded on the palate, with good acidity and smooth albeit quite taut tannins. Good acidity and freshness give the wine good bite.

[133]
Floral fragrance on the nose. This is smooth and quietly succulent with a cool, blue fruit expression alongside edges of toast, cedar and liquorice. It's a little diluted on the mid palate just losing some thrust towards the finish. Doesn't feel too lean but equally not super filling.

[134]
A little tight and spiced with a liquorice and cool blueberry bite to the tannins. Focused and clean, just a little serious at the moment.

[135]
A wonderfully affordable Bordeaux full of vibrancy and freshness. Intense aromas of blackberry alongside spiced, soft tannins. It's full-bodied but refined, with juicy fruit given structure by oak ageing. Lovely now but will age.

[136]
Peppery and spicy on the nose, before revealing light and lifted red berry fruit. Really nicely sweet-fruited and rounded, with a full body but not-too-heavy tannins.

[137]
Juicy, fresh, compact, with good energy and freshness. Vibrant and crunchy, some reduction on opening, so decant this if drinking young. Very Cornas in structure, with deeply etched beams of tannin and bright acidity running through it. Not a massive Cornas, but an energetic, cleansing one.

[138]
A juicy, medium-bodied claret, this has soft black-fruit aromas and a hint of vanilla. Definitely in a lighter style, but holding up well for the age.

[139]
A concentrated, tense and saline wine, powerful but without excessive alcohol. Lovely fresh blackberry and blackcurrant fruit and huge grip and presence. Will take time to come round, and will always be quite potent in alcohol, but this has real depth and length. Great clarity and intensity, serious freshness and great focus.

[140]
Deeply coloured but not opaque. Lovely bright and spicy style of Syrah that's embedded with vanilla pod and sandalwood; the oak is well judged. Only just medium-bodied, it's a bright, snappy expression. The fruit is just-ripe; there's the slightest bitter note on the finish, which is clean and tapered.

[141]
Fairly tannic but super cool and fresh too with cola and blueberry nuanced. Chewy but really juicy, an approachable fun and easy wine still with bite, tang, juiciness and tannic density. Very appealing still with bite. Not as dense and weight as some, but wow there's a lot to like; gorgeous acidity, textured and well defined tannins, lovely punchy fruit and a long length. Delicious, still with a minty, graphite and clove lift on the finish.

[142]
Smells cool and blue fruited, quite ripe also though, extremely fragrant with quite a lot of oak accents on the nose. Quite tart, high acidity on the palate, bright red fruits underpinned by a clear minerality that leaves a graphite and liquorice element on the tongue. A little lean, quite straight and a touch strict with acidity that sticks out. The cleanness and the sense of coolness and the elongated finish.

[143]
Smoky, dense and dark but lovely wealth of fruit. The most tannic and textural of Guigal's four 'La Las' this year. Clove spice, focused, direct, powerful and fresh, the tannins are particularly robust, and are likely to always be quite chiselled. Great intensity and concentration but still has sharp cheekbones.

[144]
Fresh herbs and red berries, juniper and bay leaf. A light-bodied, approachable and crunchy, tight Cornas with zesty acidity. Compact in structure, this is a fresh, early-drinking style that's delightfully drinkable.

[145]
Beautifully elegant with vibrant fruit lined by smokey and herbal notes. Great mineral backbone supporting a long, flinty finish.

[146]
Really perfumed nose, highly scented with purple flowers and dark ripe fruit - blackcurrant, damson plum and black cherry. Deep aromatics with lots of tobacco and clove spice on the nose. It's heady, strongly scented and alive. Cool and crisp on the palate, smooth, so silky, really effortless in the tannin presentation. Juicy and clean, so bright, but not sour or tart, just the right side, so it's lifted but not overly austere. Once the acidity calms down in comes the salty, mineral base giving lots of liquorice, wet stone and graphite tones, putting you squarely on limestone. Fruit is ripe and there is the softest chew to the expression but it keeps a relatively sleek frame. A bit minty. It's not so layered, but it's certainly finessed and graceful on the palate with lots of precision and movement from start to finish. One that makes you want another sip straight away.

[147]
A little subdued on the nose. Chewy and slightly grippy, this has a soft intensity and concentration that then settles and reveals a touch of toast, cedar and tobacco. There's a nice fruity start and saline finish. Juicy, but a little drying yet still with plenty of power and kick.

[148]
Stunning fragrance. The warmth of summer coming through your glass, the scented garden - between lavender and rose and then really ripe strawberries laced with some heady spice. It's really scented, complex and alluring. The result here is plump, voluptuous fruit tied together with a thread of fine grippy tannin. It's impressive. This wine shows seductive scents and fragrance as part of the charm.

[149]
Cool blue fruits and dark chocolate on the nose with blackcurrant and bramble fruit. Lovely fresh fragrance. Round and textured, a nice filling weight and body to this, almost chewy, juicy and lively, really in balance - very welcoming and generous and verging on charming. High acid but very welcoming. Chalky and mineral on the finish, a powdery sensation lingers on the tongue.

[150]
Appealing aniseed, quince and damson notes underpin this beautifully supple, fleshy style. Rich, bold and satisfying with a long finish.

[151]
Pure and Burgundian in profile. Lighter weight and frame. Attractive but a little pinched on the finish.

[152]
Ripe plums and black cherries on the nose, really quite intense and bright. Vibrant but rich too. A lot of high acidity, really quite prominent, verging on sharp, but lifts the expression and gives a real edge to the red fruits on the palate. Sleek, well defined, but this also has some chew and flesh as well as bite. It's a little high toned, but actually once it settles it'll be lovely for sooner drinking. Bright, young, buzzy and easy.

[153]
Fresh and fruity, this has a really lively kick to it with a blueberry and cranberry tang and lovely just-salty edged tannins. Crisp and sleek. Juicy and clean, ready to enjoy now. Still remaining cool and classic but will age as there's tannins and plenty of structure in the background.

[154]
Classic combination of bright redcurrant jelly fruit and dusty, rocky notes. Perky acidity, which in the end slightly dominates. Quite ripe but a touch pinched.

[155]
Supple and lithe, nicely filling tannins that have both a ripe fruit and cool freshness aspect to them. Filling but not overwhelming. Feels controlled with quite a cool, mineral overall tone. Chalky on the finish. Lovely presentation here, nothing out of place and still quite an intense flavour.

[156]
Some damson and plum fruit on the nose, dark scents with blueberry. High toned and zingy, the fruit is forward and alive on the palate, sharp and high toned, really fun and lifted. A nice, open and alive expression centred around the perky summer berry fruit with edges of wet stones, graphite and pencil lead. A bit of waxy crayon in there too. It's certainly finessed, this has more of a youthful, high acidity style. Tart but well controlled, a really lively glass of wine, so much energy and really does make you want another sip.

[157]
A little bit closed on the nose right now with black fruits hidden in the background. The palate is smooth and dense, so much fruit power but this is lighter on the tongue, more immediately juicy with more apparent acidity. It's still got a lot of life ahead and the tannic structure is a little overpowering at this point but showing good potential and definitely that little bit more harmonious.

[158]
Lovely vibrant purple colour in the glass. Fragrant and lifted, a combination of sweet and ripe and fresh blackcurrant and black cherries on the nose with a touch of dark chocolate. Smooth and silky, but rich too, there's depth and weight but not too much. Grippy and filling, it coats the mouth with a crushed velvet texture, you feel the ripeness but there's such lift and effortless purity of fruit that it feels fresh too. No extra fat, but equally it's not too lean, not strict at all. Not hollow, not light, there's no let up. Juicy cherry, blackcurrant and blueberry with lots of liquorice on the finish. Elegant and stylish.

[159]
Beautiful, expressive, open and lively on the nose – singed herbs and red fruits, then fine tannins and good acidity. Finishes with precision and good fruit, bright, fresh and well-balanced.

[160]
Clean, almost verging on high toned and a little lean, but the acidity, with a hint of sweetness, stops it from being too serious and liquorice heavy although there's still some toast and spice on the finish. Approachable.

[161]
Black pepper spice, milk chocolate and ripe blackcurrants. Less ripe and heavy on the palate than the nose suggests, more streamlined with detail to the tannins and purity to the fruit. Built heavily on the concentration but it's not missing any freshness or brightness. Mouthwatering succulence on the finish. A big Merlot with tons of personality. Great cooling mint on the finish.

[162]
Blackberries and plum skins, a dark display, ripe but not jammy. This is concentrated, with a strong tannic base. It's full-bodied, quite solid and muscular with a long finish. You really sense the Mourvèdre here, it's an ambitious style of Côtes du Rhône. Leave for a year to harmonise, then it will last for some time and improve in bottle.

[163]
This will be a balanced, fresh and saline vintage rather than a structured or powerful one. Expressive, tight and vivid. Very fresh, with floral rose aromas, with iron-tinged tannins; provides the richness and generosity of fruit.

[164]
Crisp and fresh red fruits on the nose. Crunchy and bright, quite high toned but with licks of wet stone give a really mineral undertone. Lean and salty, but with pristine fruit and a sense of clarity. A little strict and tense but well constructed. Juicy, succulent and really easy. Unfussy, straight and fine.

[165]
An elegant style for Ribera, with a good intensity of fruit, some toastiness from the oak and good freshness. Just about ready to drink, but would certainly be worth putting aside for a year or two longer.

[166]
Soft, massy and thick with very fine tannins, creating a full-bodied, velvety style, what a gorgeous texture. It's dark fruited, with subtle herb inflexions. A fur coat of a wine. Very easy to drink, and easy to love. Really all about the fabulous texture.

[167]
Full, generous, with plenty of fruit and balanced acidity. The oak is used well, it doesn't crowd out the fruit on the palate. Fine and ripe, with a long finish.

[168]
Aromas of herbs, potpourri, pink peppercorns and blackcurrant. A full-bodied style, with plentiful ripe fruit, it's very juicy. Approachable already; there's concentrated, thick black fruit and denim-textured tannins, and it all comes together harmoniously and offers a chewy, fruity/savoury style of Cornas with muscle and heft.

[169]
Aromatic, cherry blossom and red cherry notes. It has some tannic grip and well-balanced acidity too. Good length of cherry and raspberry flavour. A fresh, appealing, drinkable style with floral notes and some aromatic and textural detail.

[170]
A strong sensation of ripe, succulent fruit, along with spicy and herbal aromas. Generous flavours and firm tannin structure, closely connected to the limestone soils of the area.

[171]
Juicy, strawberryish style that's fresh and approachable already, lively and aromatic. Bright acidity allied to small-scale but enjoyably brisk tannins and a long, fruity finish. Very much Grenache-led. Well balanced, enjoyable, and not overworked; not a big Châteauneuf, but an appealing, well-balanced and expressive wine.

[172]
Lightness of touch and a briskness that makes for a very drinkable wine. Brambly, with good acidity, and an authentic feel. Good tannic structure – clearly defined, not overly thick.

[173]
Transparent pale red with just a touch of purple. Bright, fresh nose with cranberry and wild strawberry. Great juiciness on the palate, flowing acidity. Tight, limestone nip on the finish. Touch of bitterness brings interest and structure. Medium-bodied, very light in concentration, with fine, chalk dust tannins.

[174]
Ripe and somewhat fleshy on the palate, with chewy tannins and filling red and blue fruit. Feels clean and well worked, enough texture without feeling like they've pushed this too far. Has intensity and concentration with overall cool freshness. One to wait a while longer for.

[175]
Detailed herbal nose, with black cherry fruits. There are some punchy tannins, and a lovely sense of freshness from its good acidity and length. Not the most refined, but has lots to enjoy.

[176]
Blackcurrant, plum and cranberry - all crisp fruit aspects. A little tart and high toned, but there's such ripeness too so you get high acidity with quite concentration that give a wide mouthfeel and under it all there's freshness and a cool mint tone. Lots going on with a steely core too. Not quite harmonised but will be lovely.

[177]
Elegantly silky and scented, medium-bodied with velvety tannins. A real patchwork of soils here dial the perfume up and add a fresh acidity, giving it a charm that lives up to its name.

[178]
Broad, mouthfilling, an unusually powerful and concentrated Hermitage. Has backbone and structure, it's a mineral style that will age well. The oak is forthright and will take time to meld.

[179]
Bright vibrant purple colour and full of dark, brambly fruits. Light-bodied, very smashable, this has an upright nature and good freshness. Grippy tannins, this has some texture.

[180]
Clear and clean blackcurrant fruit. Nice touch of iron on the palate. Plump, rounded, fleshy and succulent, but it avoids heaviness thanks to the lively acidity. Ripe tannins give structure and there's a distinct earthiness that is actually quite appealing.

[181]
Potpourri incense aromatics, so floral and fragrant. Thick and glossy, succulence and high acidity with plenty of freshness but plenty of heft and broad and filling palate. Richer side, despite the cooling, fresh acidity. Showy and confident wine that really delivers plenty of enjoyment. Sticky liquorice on the finish with lashings of oak and bitter chocolate. Personality.

[182]
Still gorgeous now, with floral potpourri aromas, taking on a touch of benevolent decay. Still has some enjoyable strawberry fruits and potpourri on the palate. Very savoury now, the fruits are on the finish, but it still has finesse. A concentrated, sunny vintage, that never closed down.

[183]
Some reduction on the nose means this is a bit stinky on opening. This departs with some air, leaving authentic strawberry fruit. Soft and juicy on the palate, this is welcoming and easy-going, with good acidity, and soft and chewy tannins. The alcohol is a touch warming, but overall this has charm and drinkability. Drinks well young, but could age with interest. Feels nourishing.

[184]
Fairly commercial in style, with slightly jammy, dark curranty fruit, a slight tarriness, chewy tannins, and some pepperiness on the finish. Not the most refined example of Crozes-Hermitage, but a decent enough introduction to the style.

[185]
A lovely nose, perfumed with concentrated fruits, so much aromatic energy here. This has intensity in the mouth, immediately juicy - almost mouthwateringly so, with blackcurrant flavours at the fore, but also dry with tannins that coat the entire mouth and tongue. This still feels too young with more time needed for the wood to integrate and soften. Great potential though.

[186]
Has more power, freshness and length than this estate's Tradition bottling. It's very grippy, it will need time for the tannins to settle down. Good freshness, more concentrated too. Give it time.

[187]
Fresh and fruity, clean and precise with a nice lifted expression. It narrows slightly towards the finish with some liquorice and toasted spice as well as slate and pencil lead but this has a good structure and long length. Juicy on the finish.

[188]
Fine expression of Cabernet fruit, both spicy and ripe and already rounded and quite smooth, good fragrance and depth, a vigorous, characterful St Julien.

[189]
Black olive tapenade on the nose, quite savoury with dark black fruit aromas, some vanilla and chocolate elements too. Smooth and silky with amazingly high acidity that you don't expect from the aromatic display. Lively and clean, tongue scraping with a long length of almost tart strawberry and wet stones. Biting acidity with tons of mint and minerality. Mouthwatering but not too much, a little clipped on the finish but more due to tension. A cooler climate feel to this, definitely not jammy, it has concentration but a fresh aspect to the fruit with pronounced acidity and minerality. Clean and focussed. Something very drinkable to this.

[190]
Very approachable and offers good value for money. Has a little development to add interest, and lots of ripe black fruit. A crowd pleaser, would make great everyday drinking.

[191]
Blood, blackberry, blood orange; tangy, balsamic. Medium-bodied with good concentration and vibrancy, if not great length. Marked acidity. No greenness, just lively Syrah.

[192]
Dark fragrance, really perfumed and almost exotic on the nose, lively and expressive, rich and opulent on the aromatic spectrum. Smells fresh and clean with cool blue fruit. Tight and compact tannins really set the stage with acidity that doesn't quite match right now. Cranberry and cherry notes but it's a touch severe and doesn't have as much charm as many at this stage. Built to last with power and great substance, full and filling, just impenetrable right now. Enjoyable cool aspects on the finish.

[193]
Pretty expression of black fruits, tannins are a little down and dirty. Well balanced, the fruit has been well extracted. Ready to go.

[194]
Hugely aromatic at the time of tasting, with exuberant blackberry pâte de fruits notes. So juicy, lively and energetic, with balanced alcohol, fairly burly but buffed tannins and good length. Dark-fruited and beguiling.

[195]
Straightforward but fresh and defined plum fruit. Gently juicy, youthful and easy-going. Simple but well balanced. No excess alcohol, good acidity.

[196]
Good crunchy fruit that is fresh and almost succulent for this wine. A vibrant example with some spice and hints of new wood.

[197]
Fresh black berries and black cherry on nose and palate. Medium-bodied with a nice spiciness that lingers on the finish, fresh acidity and approachable tannins.

[198]
A very fresh and authentic expression. Not hugely concentrated, but well shaped, well balanced and vibrant. Very drinkable style.

[199]
Classy aromas of gently spiced black cherry lead to a fresh palate; a mineral seam beneath spicy black fruit, with nicely judged oak and good tannic grip.

[200]
Good weight and intensity, although not a huge concentration of fruit. It's quite a structural style that works around acidity and tannin. This will take time to come round but should be precise and complex when ready.

