RED — Cluster 1: Silky, red-fruited aromatics with forest floor and mineral depth
1,542 wines total | 200 sampled
============================================================

[1]
Delicate and softly floral, this is light and fruity with tons of bright raspberry and freshly picked red cherry flavours. Soft and so easy to drink, with vibrancy and an energetic lift at the end.

[2]
Dark notes of earth, sea salt, and smoky rose petals all come together to light up the aromatics. The palate shows ripe boysenberry balanced by smoked sea salt, savoury wild herbs and a finish of ripe Oregon blackberry.

[3]
Evocative of aged Bordeaux with violets and turned earth aromas, it carries about it an air of distinguished accomplishment. The palate shows a certain confident elegance. Incredible freshness leaps from the lively red fruits, cranberries and blood orange to make way for spicy chicory root, a sense of mushroom-driven umami and a cool note of forest floor.

[4]
Fleshy and full. Aromas of dried strawberry, ripe Oregon blackberry and gorgeous deep violets. A fruit-centred palate brings forth juicy raspberry, pops of pomegranate and a savoury, exotic spice and white pepper clear through the finish.

[5]
This 2022 Pivot Pinot Noir opens with a lifted nose, with mineral, earthy, and umami aromatics - notes of mushroom and wet leaves. Anise, dried violets, and lavender complement the aromas. The mid-palate brings some red and blue fruit with a hint of citrus peel and bitters that add edge to the high acid. The tannins are a bit chalky, yet a mineral core softly lingers through the finish.

[6]
Fabulous fragrance of red cherries, violets and Earl Grey. A sprightly palate with fresh acidity, fine tannins and heaps of bright red berry fruit.

[7]
A vibrant, fresh, youthful Pinot Noir with a typical, fragrant nose full of dark berries, wood and spice. Smooth and ripe on the palate, full of juicy succulence, crisp acidity and bright red summer fruit flavours. Rounded and supple on the palate.

[8]
Juicy and bright, it features tangy red fruits with a hint of orange peel. A herbal touch emerges on the bracing finish.

[9]
This full-bodied Pinot Noir offers ripe cherry and pomegranate candy notes dusted with sweet and savoury spice. The soul of the wine lifts a silky mouthfeel; a prominent mineral edge. Lingering acidity suggests further ageing potential.

[10]
Bright and floral with wild strawberry blossoms and wild roses, followed on by sweet melon notes. The palate is fruit-forward but offers plenty of structure and savoury character. Wild strawberries, hints of blood orange and grapefruit pith veer into streaks of wet slate to finish.

[11]
This Pinot has a deliciously tangy autumnal fruit aroma. Flavours of ripe cherry, chocolate and a hint of black pepper and vanilla fill out...

[12]
This GSM is a juicy blend with Mourvedre leading the way, it gives this wine a nice savoury harmony with alpine herbals, and red florals. Salty and herbal notes on the fore palate begin a lively intensity, with savoury herbals, wild strawberries and a smoky notes of sea salt.

[13]
Appealing ripe red fruit - strawberries, cranberries, plum - supported by notes of spice and smoke. Shows good drive and poise all the way through to the lively, long finish. The acid imparts freshness but could be better integrated with the generous fruit. Nevertheless, delicious and elegant.

[14]
High-toned red pomegranate and cherry fruit and hints of lavender and spice. The texture is light and fine, with supple tannins, and an ethereal yet solid feel.

[15]
It balances the lively fruit character with splashes of savoury herbs and purple florals. On the nose the classic gravelly minerality, sweet boysenberries and oh so ripe strawberries. On the palate, sweet spices, ripe blue and red fruits and a touch of toasted oak spice.

[16]
Gorgeous currant fruit and Earl Grey tea-like tannins emerge, alongside touches of smoke, incense, and elegant Indian spice character that carries through the lengthy finish. Still plenty of freshness and tension.

[17]
Exciting, with ripe, forward aromas of mulberry fruit, earth, smoke and spice. The colour is deep, and the texture is surprisingly muscular for the vintage. There is abundant structure and weight here; the wine should be approachable with two to three years in the bottle, but it should also age well.

[18]
Buoyant red berries and blood-orange freshness alongside savoury white pepper and saline seaspray notes on the nose. The palate shows red fruits and sous bois, fresh green herbs, and saline give a sense of umami framed by nicely placed tannin and spice.

[19]
Has wonderful purity of ripe cherry fruit with hints of liquorice and earth. The texture is supple and approachable, yet there is enough grip and structure to carry the wine to a lovely finish.

[20]
This fun, friendly Pinot delivers delicious sappy freshness and the crisp acidity, gentle oak tannins and ripe summer pudding fruit flavours.

[21]
One of the most satisfying wines from the Clos de Vougeot, with delightful black and red fruit aromas touched with earth and smoke, admirable intensity and structure on the palate, and no trace of astringency or bitterness.

[22]
Surprisingly lovely in 2024, with an elegant, expressive aroma of raspberry, plum and a distinctive hint of violets. The texture is firm and fresh, with tannins that are definitely firm but nicely managed.

[23]
Red and black fruits and chicory root spices show across the aromatics. The palate has a sense of heft, sweet blood orange, fleshy cherries, and subdued notes of white pepper are followed by a sprinkling of dried herbs through the finish.

[24]
His Pinot is fresh and engaging, with tons of sappy berry fruit and hints of woodsmoke.

[25]
Aromas of juniper berries, blackberry cobbler and juicy strawberries alight the glass. The palate is densely fruited, with ripe bramble fruits, sweet strawberry preserves and a flourish of dried herbs providing a touch of savoury to the finish.

[26]
Thoroughly charming and up to its reliable standard as one of the best value wines of the domaine, with a dark colour and a forward, high-toned pomegranate fruit with floral accents. The delicate balance of fresh acidity with the weight of the fruit makes this an elegant expression of the village.

[27]
Savoury, gamy notes open up to stewed red cherry and strawberry on the nose. An elegant palate with lovely concentration of sour cherry and red berries, dusted with spiced wood tannins. Red fruits linger on the finish.

[28]
Beautifully perfumed, it's a seductive expression with lifted red fruits, abundant florals and subtle spice. The supple, silken palate has a filigree structure, its grace belies a surprising amount of persistence and power. A truly lovely wine that captures quiet power and finesse.

[29]
A deep ruby colour promises concentration. Although initially somewhat reserved, this opens well on the palate to show a lovely, sweet character alongside the pleasant black cherry fruit. The texture is supple and round, but there is enough structure to carry the fruit well.

[30]
It feels compact with lots of dried cherries and earthy, mossy aromas underneath. The palate is tannic and a touch dense, with some lifted citrus-herbal notes, like tarragon, showing towards the finish.

[31]
Fresh, fruity. Aromas of blackberry, candied strawberries and fresh mint. Delicious candied fruit and savoury fresh herbs, green tea leaf and clove.

[32]
Ripe spiced plum aromatics with smoky flint and ember notes. The palate is ripe and densely dark fruited, with notes of ember, dried fig and a gravelly minerality.

[33]
The old-vine Gevrey offers expressive aromas of blackberry fruit with an edge of rose petals and spice that lead into a texture enlivened by fresh acidity. The body is light and crisp, with enjoyable dynamic tension, yet the wine has surprising persistence.

[34]
Bright cherry fruit mingles with espresso, star anise, and tangerine peel, while sweet pipe tobacco notes add depth. The palate is broad and creamy, with warming spices carrying through to a succulent, lingering finish.

[35]
The result is a wine that feels notably fresh and fruit-driven. There is greater clarity to the fruit and spice profile here. Easy-going and charming, it finishes with smoky clove and orange peel notes that linger pleasantly. It retains that signature silky texture.

[36]
The 2022 Pinot Noir leans into floral aromatics and a vivid core of red and ripe blue fruit. The palate picks up a touch of baking spice. Silky, fresh, and beautifully perfumed, the wine finishes with a subtle herbal freshness and earthy, mineral edge.

[37]
Savoury with amaro herbals, intricate red fruits, dusty rose petals and taut wild fruits. The palate offers intense elegance, with notes of raspberries, blood orange, and exotic spices. A delicious and beautiful bottle of wine.

[38]
An approachable, softly fruited and ripe expression of California Pinot Noir. There's no obtrusive oak here, but it's lightly toasty, with generous and lush red cherry and red berry fruit.

[39]
Bright curranty fruit and a salty mineral note give nice complexity and depth. The texture is fresh and lively, the body is light and the finesse shows well; the fruit is fully ripe and expressive.

[40]
Layered and floral with waxy rosehip, cherry, earth and savoury spices, the silky palate has a sweetly fruited, generous core, though the oak is a touch prominent at this youthful stage. Quite a textbook style; should continue to develop nicely over the next few years.

[41]
Bright, forward plummy fruit, hints of smoke, and an undercurrent of dark chocolate that develops on the palate and echoes on the finish.

[42]
Darker in colour, Benjamin Leroux's Volnay Caillerets is not that open on the initial attack, but on the palate it begins to do so with a sweet, lush blackberry fruit aroma, hints of violets and anise, and an undercurrent of dark chocolate. The texture is dense and velvety, with plenty of tannic grip.

[43]
Purple sage herbaceous character, and the strong winds imbue this Pinot Noir with plenty of tannic structure. Salty and crisp at the finish with a core of red/blue berries.

[44]
Concentrated with red and black fruits, flourishes of florals. Violets and salty minerality alight the glass. The palate glistens with great savoury herbals, chicory, and clove. Spiced and elegant.

[45]
This is an exuberant and joyful wine with prominent aromas of black cherry and violets. The texture is supple and dense, with approachably silky tannins and nothing astringent on the finish.

[46]
The colour is deep, and the wine is redolent of bright cherry and pomegranate aromas, with an edge of menthol and black tea. The texture is lively and firm.

[47]
Bright red berries meet darker fruits, dried herbs and a touch of oak spice, bringing both structure and finesse.

[48]
Seduces with ripe raspberry and blueberry fruit. There's an attractive chalkiness to it too, and the structure to handle food.

[49]
There is plenty of earth character on the nose here, dark fruits, black and blue berries, and a note of fresh mint lingers on the palate at the finish. There's a mineral freshness that cuts through dark ripe blackberries, with violet tones on the nose. Sapidity on the palate with intense blue fruits.

[50]
Pure Willamette character on the nose, with forest floor, tart cranberries, and mint leaves, is balanced by a kiss of sea salt. The palate is a melange of juicy red berries, salty mineral glimpses, and savoury amaro herbals.

[51]
Rich, dense, long and exemplary in this challenging vintage, with pronounced aromas of ripe plum, mulberry, floral notes, and hints of earth and smoke. The texture is concentrated and surprisingly tannic.

[52]
He has delivered a very substantial wine of impressive structure and lovely length. The aromas are not as forward as the premiers crus, but they open on the palate to show nuanced flavours of pomegranate and ripe black cherries with hints of liquorice, smoke and earth. This wine should open well after five or six years and drink for at least 20 beyond that.

[53]
Classically styled with soaring red fruits and spice. Redolent with berry fruits, forest floor, and alpine meadow herbs on the nose. The palate offers a purity of fruit, bright blood orange, and red and black brambles. Juicy and layered, with sous bois and smoke, a crushed-stone minerality, and perfectly fine tannins, finishing with savoury flourishes.

[54]
Plenty of fragrant, crunchy and juicy redcurrant fruit, with some toasty oak framing it and adding warmth.

[55]
It's a softer and sweeter Pinot, fleshy and sweet black fruits, boysenberry, pie cherries and ripe blackberries. This is a fruit driven and fleshy round wine. It shows Christmas spice and pine sprigs.

[56]
Fourrier's Clos St-Jacques is among the finest Gevrey premiers crus. There is bright, forward pomegranate and cherry fruit with hints of violets and flinty minerality. On the palate, there is a lot of energy and freshness, but it lacks neither depth nor structure. The wine is open and accessible, yet it still has power. Prudent wine lovers will wait at least five years before opening and enjoy it over the next 20.

[57]
Aromas of rooibos tea, sweet earth and red cherries. The palate is crisp and tannic, with black tea, smoky spice and green herbs.

[58]
Marked with elegant violets and rich, turned soil aromas, baked by a touch of smoky clove spice. The palate shows freshness and savoury character as dried lavender, mint and a touch of sea salt lift up juicy cranberries and smashed red raspberries.

[59]
Lifted and fresh nose, with crunchy red fruit (cherry, wild strawberries and plums) and a subtle zesty lining. Notes of violets and roses play in the background. The palate echoes the red-fruit freshness, with the drive of the flavours lined by sweet spice (liquorice, nutmeg) and a gentle herbal lift (dry coriander and oregano). Juicy, with a fine acid line carrying it with ease.

[60]
Rich aromas of dark bramble fruit, turned earth, and dark, rich florals. Dark and rich across the palate. Sweet earth, black cherries and mushrooms give an earth-driven, rich flavour profile with a sweet, smoky spice finish.

[61]
Aromas of ripe blackberries and spice, with a hint of mint and sweet juniper scents on the nose. The palate is intensely fruited, plums, sweet blackberries, and a note of berry pie carries through the finish.

[62]
Tart and spicy with tight red fruits, salted cherry and a touch of sourness. Mature notes of soy, leather and autumn leaves add depth. Astringent edges linger. Fully developed, best enjoyed now.

[63]
Immediately inviting nose of rose petals and allspice layered over raspberry, redcurrant and cherry with a light touch of milk chocolate and dried herbs. A fairly generous palate, with a silky texture, slightly sappy red fruit and very fine, powdery tannins. Offers good value with plenty of bright charm and finesse.

[64]
Tasted out of barrel, initially somewhat closed. On the palate, the wine revealed its massive structure, with abundant extract and somewhat fierce tannic grip. Doubtless, this will open up with time, but for now it lacks generosity and depth.

[65]
Ripe and savoury, you definitely feel the whole cluster in the structure and savoury edges. Salty and edgy, it's a delicious outlier to the other, more fruit and forest-centred Pinot Noirs.

[66]
The oak influence shows in the wine, which is fairly angular in style with some cedar spice from the barrel ageing. There is some attractive red berry fruit character, but would like a little more generosity and vibrancy. This is a decent if more savoury style of Pinot Noir.

[67]
Offering complex red and black fruit aromas with a hint of liquorice, rose petal, earth and flint. The texture is surprisingly firm and dense, showing the substance to age on the palate.

[68]
Pretty aromas and flavours of dark berries and cherries carry on to what is quite a restrained, mineral palate with brisk acidity and a firm structure that should ensure it ages well over the next few years. Fresh floral hints and smooth, creamy oak tones linger on the finish.

[69]
Bright and juicy, with redcurrant fruit and a hint of spicy oak. Light in style.

[70]
It opens floral and lifted, with a rush of sweet cherry and wild raspberry, then deepens into darker shades of blue fruit. There's a clear sense of tension and release: high in acid, yet fleshy and savoury, threaded with a salty tang and a flicker of wild herbs on the finish. A compelling wine, with enough depth to keep you wandering.

[71]
Irresistibly enticing aromatically, showing candied cranberries, honey, toast and vanilla swirling together in a perfume that's both rich and delicate. On the palate it's astonishingly fluid and light on its feet, almost weightless, yet the concentration is unmistakable. Toasty oak and floral fruit glide together seamlessly. Dainty, beautiful and quietly thrilling.

[72]
Spicy charmer that boasts savoury, meaty smokiness, unveiling red cherry and strawberry fruit and dried petals. A powerful palate with bright freshness, salinity and depth. The texture is well polished, leading to a profound finish.

[73]
The blend offers a pleasantly forward plum and black cherry fruit with hints of spice and smoke. There is more substance and structure than the comparable blend from Ladoix; here, the terroirs are closer to the grands crus.

[74]
A very subtle wine, richly perfumed with red fruits, violets, rosehip, sweet hay and exotic spices. Layered and compact with a very fine, filigree structure. The mineral-rich, textural palate somehow manages to be both compact and ethereal. A wine of presence and energy.

[75]
Fully ripe black plum fruit aromas are complemented with hints of earth, bramble and bay leaf. The feel on the palate has presence, although it is relatively light and fresh; the texture overall is silky, supple and very pleasant.

[76]
Gorgeous forest character soars, with pine boughs and mint leaves providing a savoury frame for the ripe dark fruits. The palate is lush, opulent even, with Oregon blackberries, red plums and dark cherry flesh, clove and five spice give a dusky, dark it finises with a savoury and salty pop.

[77]
A beautifully bright and intense red in the glass, the 2023 Sea View Ridge Pinot Noir walks around floral aromas, vibrant fruit, and coastal savoriness. Aromas of wild fennel, fresh pine, and wildflowers rise from the glass, followed by red, crunchy berries and a splash of pomegranate juice. There's a whisper of salinity. Nothing dominates; instead, each element weaves together quite nicely. Already drinking beautifully in its youth, it's also a wine worth cellaring to revisit in a few years.

[78]
This Pinot Noir showcases quiet complexity with effortless Californian charm. Think black cherry compote, plum and earth, with velvety tannins and a warming hint of vanilla paste on the finish.

[79]
It opens with a scented nose reminiscent of strawberry coulis and some herbal notes that lift rather than detract. The palate has soft, chalky tannins that combine with the rich, ripe, red fruit. Quite full alcohol, but overall balanced, plump and delicious.

[80]
Red fruits and savoury herbs announce this bright and herbaceous wine on the nose. Rose hips, pine bough and a bit of ripe raspberry. The palate is light and lively. Easy to enjoy.

[81]
Spicy, savoury aromas with brighter top notes of redcurrant and cranberry on the nose. The palate is fresh, with crunchy sour cherry fruit, blackberries, herbs and spices and well integrated tannins.

[82]
The 'classic' cuvée has a medium-deep colour and aromas of ripe mulberry fruit, earth and a hint of savoury reduction. The texture is lighter, but there is a surprising persistence on the palate drawn out by bright acidity.

[83]
Darker in colour and fuller in body, the wine shows impressive ripeness. The wine offers ripe black cherry fruit with hints of violets and earth initially, and silky tannins and an approachable texture on the palate, free of astringency. This will open soon after release and drink well for at least a decade.

[84]
The village-level Vosne from Benjamin Leroux is fairly restrained in the 2024 vintage. The fruit flavours open up a bit on the palate with notes of plum and peony, but the fruit lacks the generosity that I have come to expect from Leroux's wines. The texture is firm and tannic and will require some time to come around.

[85]
Deep in colour, with lots of black fruit that is plump and plummy in character. Floral notes of violets alongside some tangy berry fruit, and a little toasty vanilla on the finish. Chewy.

[86]
Pronounced, forward cherry fruit with accents of violets and liquorice. The texture is light in body but supple and silky, with enough fresh acidity to draw the wine to a lingering finish.

[87]
Red fruits with clove and blood orange leap forward. Red fruit, with pine sap, an umami character here too, along with earth and a touch of red miso. A subtle complexity frames all this fruit and savoury character, with chopped mint leaf and salt soaring through to the end. Finishes with a capitulation of savoury herbs, alpine florals. Brilliant complexity.

[88]
Lush cherry fruit, cherry compote, and warm cinnamon and clove spice, with a hint of espresso bean. Medium-bodied, silky, and polished, it finishes long with a dusting of cocoa powder.

[89]
Sweet cherries and forest floor on the nose, with umami-driven hints of mushroom and dark rose petals. The palate is quite pretty, with cool blue fruits, Oregon blackberries and a dusting of mocha. The finish is savoury, a rich mix of sweet, smoky spice and sea salt. The balance is exquisite.

[90]
Aromas of wild berries and spice, with flourishes of wild mint. On the palate, taut berries, mild exotic spices, wild herbs and red fruits. Light to medium bodied and at lower alcohols than many Croatian coastal red wines.

[91]
Tart bramble berries and raspberry leaf make for soaring and bright aromatics. The palate is lean, fresh and electric, with early season, crunchy blackberries, white pepper and a kiss of mint.

[92]
This vintage offers aromas of fresh berry, violets and minerals, while the palate is taut with a gentle texture and fine tannins. A New World Pinot Noir of surprising quality.

[93]
Alluring florals, as violets and church candles, meld with the forest floor and dark wild fruits. The palate is juicy and intense, with black raspberries, mint, and juicy cherries all playing nicely together. Fruit-centric for sure, but with plenty of savoury edges to make for an ageability compelling Pinot Noir.

[94]
Deeply floral on the nose with rich violet depth, sous bois and buoyant ocean air. The palate is silken, with notes of lilac and lavender, a touch of crunch, black fruit, and a core of stony minerality that carries it to a finish. It will unwind in both the glass and with patience in the cellar.

[95]
shows sweet tobacco aromatics and strawberry fruit leather along with notes of brown sugar and cinnamon. The palate shows oxidative notes reminiscent of Port, with flavours of sarsaparilla, sweet cherry and molten chocolate cake.

[96]
A beautiful wine in 2024, with nuanced aromas of ripe cherry and pomegranate. The texture is silky, and on the palate the fruit expands to include a savoury, almost gamey note. This wine will require three to five years to begin to open up and will continue to improve in the bottle for decades.

[97]
A lively, exciting wine in 2024, with high-toned pomegranate and rhubarb fruit and hints of lavender and iodine. The texture is lively and crisp, with abundant tension but enough substance to bring the wine into balance. This will need three to five years to open up, but it should drink for a further 20 after that.

[98]
It's pure California Pinot Noir, with juicy blackberries, violets, pomegranates and mint leaves. It pops with a purity of fruit that's accented by notes of smoky sea salt and a crisp mineral finish.

[99]
Possesses a pleasantly ripe aroma of plum and mulberry fruit with an edge of floral notes and a hint of earthy richness. The texture is firm but not acerbic, with enough freshness to lead into a lingering finish.

[100]
This has everything one has come to expect from this exemplary cuvée: a bold, ripe aroma of pomegranate and currants with hints of bramble, earth and spice that introduce astonishing density for the vintage and a complex, lingering finish.

[101]
This Vosne Premier Cru Aux Brûlées is less forward than the village-level wines in this cellar, but on the palate dark mulberry and blackberry fruit develops with notes of earth, smoke and a burst of limestone minerality. The texture is firm, tannic and structured.

[102]
Smoky clove, cedar bark and classic fresh red berries alight the class in this single-vineyard bottling from the Dundee Hills. The palate shows classic juicy fruits framed by savoury mint leaves, spicy notes of chicory root and an intense savoury richness that bounces between oceanic salinity and earthy minerality.

[103]
Savoury and floral aromatics of rose and red clover, with rhubarb and strawberries on the palate, shot through with a touch of sweet earth.

[104]
Rose petal and peony fragrance with dried earth, toast and stewed strawberries on the nose. Nuanced and full of complexity with even more rose florality, delicate yet sappy red berries and lots of savoury spice, tobacco and umami elements. Forward and super interesting to see how it grows and changes with time in the glass.

[105]
Medium ruby in colour with garnet hues, this wine serves up cherries and dried herbs on the nose. The palate brings tart red fruit notes plus bracing acidity.

[106]
Opens with aromas of pomegranate, plum, and savoury, meaty, dried salami spice. The palate delivers dark berries, bramble, and tart forest fruits, layered with earthy umami and mushroom notes. Ripe and rich yet lifted by freshness, this blend offers depth without heaviness and a satisfying savoury edge.

[107]
Tasted blind at the BIVB, this was a charming surprise, offering a medium garnet colour and attractive black cherry fruit aromas with a hint of violets and earth. Polished and elegant, with supple tannins, medium body and a surprisingly long finish.

[108]
It is light in colour but very aromatic, with a clear, pure cherry fruit and hints of rose petals and chalky minerality. The texture offers firm tannins, impressive density for the vintage and a lovely, lingering finish. It is a bit angular now, but it should smooth out nicely.

[109]
The fruit is somewhat closed down, and although the structure and weight are apparent on the palate, the wine lacks a bit of generosity.

[110]
On the nose, a dark tone of crushed stone and earth with wild savoury herbals, and dark bramble fruits. There's an elegance across the palate, forest floor, chaparral, a note of savagery that accents the dark berries and mineral freshness.

[111]
Fragrant, multi-layered Pinot offering rose, pomegranate, hibiscus tea, sour cherries and earth. Very impressive quality and precision, with fine tannins and bright fruit to the finish.

[112]
Deliciously different to the rest of the Penfolds stable, blossoming from a simple, light, pretty wine to a more serious, confident Pinot. Sappy tannins, brisk acidity and a fresh stemminess give vitality, and it has a lovely sweet and earthy marriage of flavours: rhubarb, rose and plums join rainforest, slate and pastrami.

[113]
Warm toastiness, great level of complexity and evolution, ripe and vibrant strawberry and red plum fruit. Harmonious, and long.

[114]
Shows a rich earthy character as forest floor and crushed stone frame wild red berry aromas. The palate is juicy, with freshly cut strawberries, a tangy squeeze of blood orange and dried mint leaves combine in a delicious freshness.

[115]
Aromas are effusive with dark forest tones, black fruits, and even hints of turned earth. Sweet and taut black fruits, with deep tones of spice and even frankincense.

[116]
Displaying the classic Gibbston high volume and lifted floral perfume, redolent in raspberry, cherry, violets and subtle wild thyme. The palate is similarly saturated with ripe red fruits, blackberries, dried herbs and forest floor, with fine structure and delicate though slightly chewy tannins. Long, savoury finish.

[117]
The wine is concentrated and tightly coiled. Aromas of spiced red berries, a squeeze of blood orange and notes of clove spice. The palate is coiled, with taut red fruits, spice and a dusty minerality that coats the finish.

[118]
Poised, intense and beautiful, this Pinot Noir soars from the glass. Savoury and elegant on the nose, with smoky depth and exotic Moroccan spices and buoyant notes of pine resin. The palate offers lush blue and black fruits, elegantly composed with a note of refinement. Wild blackberries and mint leaves, exotic Oolong tea leaves.

[119]
Floral fragrance with some earthy, wet forest floor notes. Crunchy strawberry and red cherry fruit. Juicy and easy to enjoy with salty wet stone minerality towards the finish.

[120]
Elegant and refined, it features aromas of woodland berries, wild roses and fir tips, a lift of salty ocean breeze. The palate holds cool, round red fruits, perfectly ripe strawberries, raspberry coulis and a brilliantly exotic, savoury character of amaro herbals. Dazzling and built to age.

[121]
It's savoury to the core, with aromas of mint leaf, anise and pine sap and a glistening note of ocean salt air. The palate is taut, with crisp, sapid flavours of early-season blackberry, a dusting of shaved dark chocolate, and the glinting minerality and wild alpine herbals.

[122]
This delightful wine is unusually robust for the vintage, with ripe mulberry fruit aromas and notes of peony, earth and spice. Firm tannins and abundant extract are balanced by crisp acidity, bringing this engaging wine into elegant balance.

[123]
Her Clos du Château is a 'dancing star' indeed, with deep colour, intense aromas of ripe cherry fruit and hints of rose petals and liquorice. There is admirable tension on the palate, but the wine is approachable, thoroughly ripe and eminently delicious.

[124]
Spiced red plums, cocoa powder and dark violets on the nose. The palate is warm with Christmas spice, dark fruits and even a touch of heat.

[125]
A perfumed nose of rose water, red fruits and cream chocolate dusted with sweet spices. The fleshy red and black cherry flavours on the palate, plus fragrant potpourri and black pepper. The scented red fruit flavours come through to the end.

[126]
The savoury dark cherry, blackberry and plum fruit, earth and violets, with added lift and perfumed spice. Concentrated and graceful, with quite a plush mid-palate, fine chalky tannins and a layered finish. An elegant wine that's intended for ageing.

[127]
Forward aromas of ripe red berries and pot pourri, then a concentrated, layered palate that's on the musky side – autumn leaves, dried red fruit, exotic spices and smoky oak nuances – supported by fresh acidity.

[128]
Truly perfumed, elegant, cool raspberry fruit. Succulent, long and refreshing. Beautifully polished tannins and an aromatic, lingering finish.

[129]
The colour is very light, but this wine stands out with a more complete plummy fruit that integrates the wood treatment more completely. The elegance and grace of the finished wine is evident.

[130]
The Charmes-Chambertin is the top of the range at Humbert Frères, boasting ripe aromas of black cherry, spice and smoke. The texture is substantial and dense without being heavy, and the balance between fresh acidity and lush concentration of extract keeps the wine dynamic on the admirable finish. This is not as dense as some in the appellation, but it has the balance and elegance to continue to improve for years to come.

[131]
It's effusively floral, as rose petals, lavender and lilac leap forth, followed by fresh crushed raspberries, orange peel and dried mint. The vibrance offers a pulsating resonance in their youth. Electric on the palate as green strawberries, lively notes of pine and sous bois, tart cherry and hibiscus tea. These are structured wines that evolve wonderfully with age. Flourishes of umami give a salty depth to the finish.

[132]
A rich, dark-fruited nose, perfumed with Morello cherry, Black Doris plum, wild herbs, mocha and oak spice. The palate displays delicate structure and silky fruit, with a subtle earthiness and savoury oak. A very approachable, smooth, rounded style with fine tannins and fair length.

[133]
Savoury-sweet spiced red cherry aromas and flavours are supported by fresh acidity, vanilla oak spice, supple tannins and a tangy cranberry length. Smooth, friendly and very enjoyable.

[134]
This is a perfumed, crunchy, red-fruited wine. Wild raspberry, florals and a touch of mocha, plus a cooler herbal note. A fresh, juicy palate with very fine tannins, moderate acidity and quite a tight, stalky finish. An attractive albeit leaner style with a pleasing savoury edge.

[135]
It has a beautifully aromatic nose of freshly picked wild red berries and blossom. Generous and elegant on a limpid palate, the concentrated core of red fruit is upheld by a solid tannin grip, affirming its ageing potential. The ripe, pure finish of dried strawberry is infinitely enjoyable.

[136]
A juicy, red fruited Pinot Noir, with savoury herbs, wild amaro notes, florals and lilac. On the palate, this Pinot is driven, choke cherries, rosehip oil and edgy salinity. These are wines that need time to open up and reveal their true nature, with a mineral core.

[137]
Floral and smoky notes of rose petals help frame juicy red and blue fruits. Bright red fruits, savoury herbs and dried mint leaf provide a mineral structure to the cranberries, blood orange and a dash of lavender.

[138]
Filigree aromas of rockrose, cinnamon, cocoa and talcum powder are followed on the palate by silky cherry and cranberry fruit. Blood orange and red apple add vibrancy, crunch and depth. Wonderful potpourri perfume cradles the mid-palate and lingers on the long finish.

[139]
This vintage leans into a richer expression, offering a broader interpretation. The fruit profile is vivid and expressive, with notes of cranberry and juicy red plum flesh. A touch of dried flowers rises from the glass, layered with sweet wood spice and a hint of coastal moss. The generous, glossy red fruit flavours carry through the medium-bodied palate with polished tannins leading into a gently warm, spicy finish.

[140]
Dark berry fruit leads, layered with cocoa powder notes, tart cherry, and brambly red berry character, alongside hints of orange peel. Violet florals and crème de menthe nuances emerge with air, while the finish is long, saline, and tightly mineral-driven.

[141]
Aromatic; black cherries and plums on nose and palate; brightly fruity, smooth, hints of mocha and violets, an elegant style. Earthy complexity on the nose, ripe summer fruits and hints of leather and dry herbs. The palate is ripe and juicy with elegant fruit and a velvety texture, bright acidity and good balance, and slight forest floor notes on the finish. Bright fruit and hint of mushroom on the nose, very classic Pinot. Very soft and inviting fruit on the palate, cherry and a little peppery spice. Very well balanced, good acidity on a pleasing, mid-weight finish.

[142]
A delight in 2024, with a lovely, sweet fruit aroma of ripe cherry and rose petals. Despite the exuberant fruit, it has structure and grip, with firm tannins and fresh acidity that lead to a surprisingly persistent finish.

[143]
A savoury melange of spice and beautiful red fruits. Juicy strawberries, cranberries and dashes of piquant blood orange, this is a revelatory and attention-grabbing Pinot Noir. Glinting and bright but with a seriousness that is buoyed by a fantastic savoury freshness and gleaming acidity.

[144]
Lovely ripe, plummy fruit aromas. It balances impressive density for a 2024 vintage wine with a lively acidity, drawing the finish to a lingering conclusion. A lighter, classic style.

[145]
The evocative cherry fruit aromas with hints of rose petal and anise spice make this a classic expression of this grand cru. The lovely texture boasts a pleasant density, creamy, supple tannin and an impressively lingering finish for the vintage, with no hint of heaviness or astringency.

[146]
There's ample tannin, and that looks like texture that gives a touch of structure to this fleshy, soft Pinot Noir. Ripe and juicy with dark plum character, this wine is about dark fruits and dusty spices, with notes of church candles and even a kiss of frankincense. There's a density of fruit that runs the length of the palate, dusty black berries, black plums finish with ripeness and flesh.

[147]
Seductive minty herbs, brambly fruits and a hint of damp earth mingle with Parma violets, saline cherry, orange zest and a creamy undertone.

[148]
The 2024 grand vin was firm at first, and somewhat unyielding. On a second look, the wine was more forgiving, with bright raspberry fruit and an edge of fresh violets and spice. The texture was concentrated and dense, with close-grained tannins and a lingering finish. This wine seems to unwind slowly in the glass; with a bit of ageing, it should be showing well.

[149]
It shows good purity of light red fruit alongside earth and leaves crunched under foot. Silky and layered, it's open and ready to reveal its secrets.

[150]
This is a very distinguished bottle of Pinot Noir, which shows the capacity for elegance and ageability. The secondary and tertiary character come to the fore.

[151]
The wine shows clear, beautifully defined cherry fruit, pink pepper and a hint of freshly ground mocha beans. All of this is wrapped in a fine yet gripping tannin structure, complemented by firm moments of fresh acidity. Already enjoyable, it will settle down further with maturity.

[152]
The Ceras is blue-fruited, mineral and chiselled, with violets and savoury herbal notes on the nose. The aromatics are off the charts, with savoury raspberry leaf, and brisk notes of pine bough, all freshly salty, and dark-hued, lifting violet and forest aromatics. Dark and concentrated on the palate. There's a rich umami depth here, and great concentration on the palate, mashed Oregon blackberries, sweet red strawberry flesh.

[153]
Black tea, earth and juicy bramble fruits, and dessicated rose petals. Dark red berries and sweet earth on the palate, with ample structure. There is a grippiness to the wines, and a touch of rusticity to this wine, in the most elegant sense.

[154]
Dark violets and earth are then lended a note of blood orange. Red and black brambles, savoury herbs and sea salt.

[155]
Savoury forest character, and strawberry fruit leather are backed by notes of violet and thyme. On the palate, early-season blackberries and chopped mint leaves lighten the tannin and the black tea character. A tart note of blood orange breathes a freshness into the finish.

[156]
Dark in colour, the 2024 wine initially seemed slightly closed and reduced. The fruit comes roaring to the fore on the palate however, along with a wild edge of savoury, gamey notes that are entrancing. The added value here is the tannin. This may take 10 years to open, but when it does, it will live forever.

[157]
Demonstrates better ripeness on the initial attack than the rest of the Vosne appellations in this cellar, although it is still somewhat closed at the outset. Sweet aromas of plum and black cherry develop with time on the palate. The texture is firm, almost astringent, the finish lacks the exuberance that one normally finds here.

[158]
Concentrated morello cherry fruit is supported by well-integrated smoky bacon tones, with a subtle tobacco-leaf complexity emerging as the wine begins to age. Flashy, and fabulous.

[159]
A wine that's lifted and joyous; it shines with fresh summer berry fruit, raspberry lozenge and a sprinkling of black pepper. A savoury mushroom note creeps in on the finish.

[160]
The aromas are less forward, but an aromatic complexity develops on the palate. The full range of red and black fruit is there, touched with spice, floral, and earth notes, but it is nascent; the feel on the palate is massive, structured, and very long.

[161]
Boasting lovely, expressive aromas of ripe raspberry and mulberry fruit with a floral edge, this then has a texture that balances freshness and silky tannins. This wine will drink well in three to five years, but will easily last a decade beyond that.

[162]
Fresh strawberry, minty herbs and crushed minerals on the nose. The Pinot Noir is elegant and juicy on the palate with wood-spiced red cherry and poached strawberry notes. Soft tannins and decent acidity provide structure, leading to more sweet red berries on the finish.

[163]
Juicy ripe strawberry, raspberry and blueberry, spice and orange blossom with a supple, vibrant palate. This is very attractive with the region's characteristic tannin profile and savoury dry finish adding structure and definition.

[164]
A wine that has pure mulberry fruit, notes of rose petals and spice, and an undercurrent of dark chocolate. The texture is silky yet dense, lingering moreishly on the palate.

[165]
Tasted twice with consistent results, this is another level of wine, with pronounced aromas of mulberry, plum fruit and hints of violets and spice. The texture is silky but the underlying tannins are firm, leading to a luxurious finish.

[166]
This wine boasts lovely crisp acidity and a more elegant flavour profile, featuring lifted raspberry, pomegranate, lavender and thyme notes.

[167]
Dark fruits accented by savoury bay leaf, black sage and the region's persistent saline minerality.

[168]
The 2023 Sanford and Benedict Pinot Noir shows a dark red-toned profile of black cherry and raspberry with rose petal, forest floor and warm spice. A subtle tomato leaf note adds aromatic lift to the deeper savoury tones. The palate is framed by a silky texture that marries fruit and spice with quiet complexity. The wine is poised for further development over the next three to five years.

[169]
Juicy, fruit-driven, light on its feet Pinot showing bright cherry and raspberry fruit and a delicious herby/black pepper backbone which add texture and bite.

[170]
Effusively savoury and fresh on the nose, as smashed red raspberries are framed by pine bow, dried mint leaves and forest floor. The palate brings both intensity and elegance, bright notes of blood orange, and fresh cut strawberries are balanced against salty mineral tones, juniper berries and fresh green herbs. Delicious and precise.

[171]
Leaning into minerality and white pepper, the aromatics pop with taut red berries and sea salt. Briny on the front palate, the mineral zip leads to fresh strawberries and mint leaves. There's a streak of graphite that centres minerality directly into the finish.

[172]
A fragrant, nuanced Pinot Noir with silky tannins framing strawberry, pomegranate, quince and guava fruit, with a delicate smoky seam of roasted coffee, wet tobacco leaf and petrichor. Varietal typicity and a distinct character.

[173]
This vintage is super expressive, with loads of raspberry and tart blood orange, plus this beautiful floral lift of bergamot. There's also a streak of mint and a salty, mineral edge that keeps everything in check. It's more linear and tightly wound but as compelling.

[174]
Graceful aromas of rosehip, aniseed, bergamot and cherry. The palate shows exceptional finesse, with silky tannins, perfect poise and polish - remarkably drinkable and effortlessly elegant.

[175]
A broader-shouldered bottling with brooding dark fruits and deep violet aromatics. Dark plum skins, rich violets and turned earth, with notes of smoky cedar and exotic clove spices. Rich on the palate, with black cherry flesh, and a melange of salty and savoury herbs and spices. Lingering on the palate is a prolonged, black tea finish.

[176]
A wine that offers a bit more of everything – there is a more pronounced character to the ripe cherry fruit on the initial attack, more nuance to the flavours on the palate with notes of saline minerality, spice and smoke, and there is good freshness as well. The wine is not lacking tannic grip, and the balance of these structural elements and the complex fruit lend the wine impressive length.

[177]
A robust, over-delivering, succulent, and sweet-fruited Pinot Noir — but it's also wonderfully floral, with tangerine peel, richly spiced brown notes, violets, and layers of blue and black fruit on both the bouquet and the finish.

[178]
Red woodland fruits and broken pencil lead aromas mingle with freshly chopped mint and salty ocean air. The palate is flush with wild red berries, salty blood orange and the signature crushed chalk mouth feel.

[179]
Aromas of wild green strawberries, mint and alpine meadow herbs and flowers. On the palate, savoury with rosehip oil and choke cherries along with a piquant note of blood orange and sea salt.

[180]
The most aromatic Pinot, the 2023 shows the kind of coastal elegance you expect from Sta. Rita Hills. It carries that gentle green note that sits beautifully with wild berries, bergamot, and a salty ocean breeze. The stems add shape and spice, giving the wine's delicate frame a gentle grip. It finishes bright and saline, with citrus peel and red fruit gliding over fine, chalky tannins. It's already showing plenty of charm, but there's more to come with a few years in the bottle.

[181]
Raspberry, bullace and rose with mint, slate and leafy detail. Chalky and pliant with powdery acidity and integrated tannins. Juicy and modern, holding its fruit well. Ready to drink.

[182]
Intriguing for its bright red fruit and flower petal aromas, which lead to a surprisingly rich and powerful wild-berry and spice palate. Exotic and generous.

[183]
Deep and spicy, with raspberry, dark fruit and rose over sage, earth and sun-warmed stones. Liquorice and milk chocolate add richness. Structured yet smooth with dusty tannins and invigorating freshness.

[184]
Dark, deep red in the glass, this Pinot Noir opens with warming aromas of baked cherries, cinnamon, anise, and woodsy herbal notes, such as pine and forest floor. The palate follows with similar richness, showing classic cola notes. Medium to full-bodied, it finishes with lingering spice.

[185]
Austere aromas of hibiscus tea, mint and savoury alpine herbs. Notes of iodine, white pepper, wild red brambles, and amaro herbals.

[186]
Slightly firm and somewhat stoic, the Corton Perrières can charm you when it comes out of its shell, with dense plummy fruit and notes of earth and spice. The texture is tannic and almost rustic, but in the context of 2024, this wine is a robust performance.

[187]
Earth and mineral driven, with earth and rose petals on the nose, alongside amaro herbs. Dark and silken on the palate, with notes of red fruits and a damp forest floor. Spiced and structured to the finish.

[188]
The nose is super fragrant, red-berried, fresh and a touch juicy, with a savoury dried herb lift, liquorice strap and musk lolly. Fine, splayed tannins, a lovely weave over the palate and effortless drive. A savoury hum permeates. Easy to drink, but not a simple wine.

[189]
Elegance and savoury character that leans through tobacco leaf, and a dusty, gravelly tannin. Dark fruits on the palate alongside sleek mineral salinity to finish.

[190]
Florals and spice rise from the glass, layered with aromas of wet leaves, tea, and a blend of red and blue fruits. The palate carries flavours of dried cherry and a savoury, herbal edge. The tannins offer a fine, grippy structure. Notes of tobacco and earth trail into a long, composed finish.

[191]
It plays to the red-fruit character with candied watermelon, glossy cherries and red currants. Well endowed yet taut and appropriately contained by crisp tannins, this pops with zesty, citrussy acidity and notes of mandarin, while dried herbs linger.

[192]
This offers sappy blue and red berries and hints of violets and baking spice on the creamy palate.

[193]
An inky, earthy, brooding nose leads to a fragrant palate with a round, smooth texture. Fresh red cherries and forest fruits sit atop a woody structure, joined by notes of dried strawberries and subtle but fresh acidity.

[194]
A deep colour and a lively cherry fruit character with a floral note. The texture on the palate has a fine balance between medium body and lively acidity, making this a really lovely wine.

[195]
Black fruits, blue and red berries, with ripe black cherries, this is a concentration of alluvial soils, that gives the wines a gritty tannin feel.

[196]
Lifted red fruit aromas mingle with clove-led baking spices and a hint of vanilla bean. The palate pops with Red Hot cinnamon candy tones and vibrant, high-toned fruit framed by bright acidity.

[197]
The aromas are exotic with a savoury, gamey and salty edge to the pomegranate and rhubarb fruit. Maintains its balance through the lingering finish to provide a very satisfactory expression of this sector of Gevrey in a seldom-seen premier cru.

[198]
This Pinot Noir is a pale ruby with garnet hues, delivering a playful and unserious wine. Aromas of strawberry, mixed berries, and mulling spices lead into a stemmy, herb-tinged palate with notes of dried tea leaves, florals, and a cola/sarsaparilla twist. Light on its feet and casual, but made with intention.

[199]
Savoury complexity emerges, immediately with purple florals, lilac, juniper, and green tea leaf, alongside wild strawberries. Savoury notes throughout the palate, with a delicious complexity driven by forest floor, mint, salt, and earth. A red-fruited dynamo with ample savoury depth.

[200]
Riper in style, candied ripe fruits, woodland berries, and round blue fruits. Fleshy berries on the palate, with sweet earth and forest floor.

