RED — Cluster 0: Firm-structured, floral reds with a savoury, earthy core
1,273 wines total | 200 sampled
============================================================

[1]
The 2022 demonstrates the site's attractive aromatic temperament. Tempting scents of heather, tarragon, orange zest and candied raspberry swirl from the glass. Slim in build, it is a touch angular in structure. Stony tannins and cool acidity accentuate one another. It feels genuine and pure.

[2]
Focused and with a slatey quality to the tannins, this wine combines the purity of the crunchy red fruit (cherry, redcurrant, damson) with an intense savoury edge. There's an earthy, pleasant rusticity given by notes of forest floor, prunes, dried cranberries and toasted apple peel. Alluring herbal fragrance to the finish.

[3]
The nose suggests a wildness of forest berries and woodland scrub. It is savoury and earthy with territorial notes of hazelnut and roasted chestnut, and clove and smoked pepper on the backend. Full and sinewy in muscles, its confidently extracted tannins build, with a decisively dry chalkiness grasping resolutely to the finish.

[4]
Dark and spicy, with pronounced smoky clove and hints of orange peel to the dense weave of ripe fruit and tannin, the alcohol and acidity balanced. Brooding, building in soft layers, the tannins – an underlay – ground the red and black berry fruit, with juicier black plum and grainy blueberry fruit leather.

[5]
This youthful red blend has an elegant purple hue in its ruby colour. A fragrant nose of dried roses leads to mulberry and blueberry jam. Ripe and juicy on the palate, the spiced dark fruits are concentrated and poised with polished tannins providing structure. A pinch of black pepper on the long finish.

[6]
Demure yet attractive, the 2008 doles out developing scents of forest flora, cedar bark, walnut skin and cocoa. It sports the midweight substance and crisp acidity. There is a succulent, mouthwatering undertow of tangy red currant compote. Initially smooth, the tannins dry out somewhat on the finish.

[7]
Vibrant and succulent, with plum and spur cherry at the core, cloaked in cherry leaf. Juicy, zesty tannins.

[8]
The robust, muscular, deliciously powdery tannins hold the luscious blackberry, black cherry and plum fruit with assertive ease, letting it rest comfortably on the mid palate. Fresher, juicier cranberry, blood orange and red apple peel follow, lifted by fragrant bayleaf, basil and oregano. Long finish with lingering pot pourri, dark chocolate and tobacco leaf.

[9]
There is a lovely expressive mulberry and bramble fruit aroma with hints of earth, cedar and smoke. The concentration and density of extract are matched by the firm, grippy tannins and the dynamic fruit flavours on the palate continue on a lingering finish. This wine will open in three to five years and should drink well for a further 20 years.

[10]
Crunchy black cherry and plum dance in the glass, lifted by a refreshing undercurrent of blood orange underneath. Fragrant cherry leaf playing in the background. It fills the mouth with energy and ease, supported by zesty tannins with a delicious herbal lining. Elegant nuances of violets and crushed roses.

[11]
With a pronounced balsamic character and sophisticated presentation, there is a distinct family resemblance with Mastrojanni's classic Brunello; this is perhaps more detailed, linear and savoury. Iron, tobacco and dusty herbs are amply packed into the dark brambly core. Taut tannins come together with excellent composure, injecting a dimension of textural drama. It should unfold gracefully over the next 15 years.

[12]
Despite the warm, sunny exposure, this vaunts impressive freshness and finesse. A lively nose proposes spicy red fruit, sarsaparilla and allspice blossoms. Midweight and lithesome, this is still youthfully discreet while sporting unmistakable energy and minerally depths. Buoyant acidity and long, powdery tannins make for an unhindered flow.

[13]
Blueberry, raspberry and cherry with violet and rose lift. Ripe yet crunchy with fleshy fruit and silky tannins. Garrigue freshness and elegance. Balanced and poised.

[14]
The result is a robust Syrah, big in body, depth, and flavour, layering dark fruit with notes of cracked pepper, smoked herbs, and cured meat. The structure is firm yet lifted, built more on persistence than weight.

[15]
A nose of crushed bilberry, with hints of savoury herbs leads into a broad, textured palate, with great depth of soft ripe tannins, through which runs a vein of intense dark berry fruit. The finish is long, with a firm earthy grip and a subtle return of the fruit.

[16]
Conveying both ripeness and freshness, this is perfumed with dusty dried herbs, sunbaked stone and strawberry compote. Midweight and stylishly poised, the palate offers pristine red berries with a satisfying crunch. Spicy pepper and balsamic accents add dimension. Chalky tannins tug and cling. Quite delicious.

[17]
The red is perhaps the most elegant red in the range, with ripe mulberry fruit, hints of earth and a savoury, meaty edge. At this stage in the evolution, there is still a fine veneer of oak spice that will integrate with time. The texture is full-bodied, and the tannins still grip, but this wine has wonderful ageing potential.

[18]
Vivid floral notes and bright cherry, plum and wet stone. The tannins fine and sap driven, leave the impression of a wine fresh and concentrated.

[19]
Harmonious and engaging, it flaunts rose, sage, strawberry blossom and flecks of pepper. Lithesome yet not lacking in fruit depth, its core of sumptuous warm red berries gains an earthy dimension of rooibos tea. Confident and streamlined in flow, a firm crispness of tannins holds everything in place.

[20]
Ripe and bold on the nose with plenty of black cherry liqueur and a touch of cassis, the palate shows a little greenness of tannins and a slightly bitter note through the mid-palate. The finish is constricted and lean.

[21]
The 2021 surges with fruit depth and purity from start to finish. Ripe dark cherry and wild strawberry are evocatively nuanced with sweet earth, rosemary, mint and ginseng. Plump and full, it is balanced by penetrating acidity. Bolstering tannins remain friendly while providing a secure frame. Approachable but no need to rush.

[22]
A quiet charmer, this boasts precision and purity as its strengths. Scents of cranberry, redcurrant, pepper and brushwood take some coaxing. The palate is tightly knit and slender but well-endowed with flavours of juicy red berries and cardamom. Lively acidity meets al dente tannins. Do not take this for a pushover.

[23]
With coaxing, it becomes rather evocatively scented. Sweet herbs and juniper emerge, followed by orange and baking spice, yet the austere palate still needs to catch up. All is simmering at the intense red berry core, while well-toned, muscular tannins provide plenty to chew on. These are stony and finessed but will require time. Mouthwatering and long on the finish.

[24]
Lively aromas of wild raspberries, cherry and red currants interplay with cedar spice and tobacco leaves. This has a soft, plush, medium-weight body with fine-grained tannins and a snap of tart cherry fruit on the mid-palate. Spice carries through to a fine finish.

[25]
The 2020 release is a fascinating juxtaposition of tertiary and mineral elements with an austerity of structure. Expression of place seems to trump vintage identity. Scents of pressed violet and dried strawberry blossom waft with chai-tea spice and a hint of miso. Firm, savoury and saline, the palate is tightly gripped in irony tannins; these are refined in texture. Cocoa and dried herbs adorn the finish. Shows the extraordinarily complex breadth of Barolo's expression.

[26]
Such a charming Rosso di Montalcino - unpretentious, enjoyable and well crafted. The fruit core of strawberry, cranberry and red cherry rests on a framework of firm tannins and minerality. The alcohol is very well integrated and there's a pleasant, refreshing grip on the mid-palate.

[27]
Its aromas are mesmerizing: a bouquet of rose, iris and cherry blossom emerges from iron-rich earth. The vibrant, midweight palate is saturated with pristine raspberry, effortlessly lifted by citrussy acidity. Suede-like tannins are graceful but direct, leading to a stony, mineral bite and minty finish.

[28]
Tre Tini is a pretty, perfumed package that will drink beautifully upon release. It brings together scents of summer berries with autumnal nuances redolent of pruned wood and wet leaves. Midweight, with piercingly pure raspberry, it flows with ease and grace, underscored by juicy citrus and saline tension. Powdery tannins bring tactile complexity, finishing with a cinnamon note.

[29]
Serious layered nose of cocoa nib, espresso, dried Bing cherries, plums, cassis and blackcurrant. Intense and complex with sleek tannins, balanced ripe dark fruit and broody, slatey depth.

[30]
A hug in a glass, this is classic old-vine Zinfandel: rich with dried fig and spiced damson jam, lifted by notes of bergamot and ripe dark cherry. Despite its generosity, the palate stays fresh, with velvety tannins and a touch of vanilla bean warmth. Bold yet approachable, this is full of easy charm and character.

[31]
From cool, breezy heights, it has captivating scents of damp earth and tea, which make way for raspberry preserve and heady lilac. Purity rings out on the palate, where cedar-tinged forest berries are layered with assertive chalky tannins. Truffles and stony minerals are nestled within, while frisky acidity invigorates. This balances its proportions with ease.

[32]
This wine opens with a deep, dark aromatic profile of confected blackberries and currants. The palate is bold and front-loaded with flavors of those same concentrated dark fruits, plus a savory edge of beef jerky and smoked meats. As it evolves in the glass, a surprising delicacy emerges, bringing balance to an otherwise big and rich wine. Structured yet dynamic, it delivers both power and finesse in a compelling way.

[33]
Brick-coloured, with attractive savoury, herby, sun-dried tomato aromas leading to a palate showing lovely lifted freshness. Fine-grained, sandy tannins hold just enough ripeness, while a gentle wave of acidity brings in relaxed herbal cherry flavours, framed by subtle wood. Slight sour cherry tang on the finish. Good structure, grace and harmony.

[34]
The 2020 demonstrates an immediate harmony and instant pleasure. It is just so explosively fragrant with rose, chalky earth, dark raspberry and minty herbs. With a depth of fruit, it drips with perfectly ripened, crunchy currants. Freshly tilled soil and stony minerals are folded in. Tactile, streamlined tannins are effortless and confident. This may not be the longest-lived edition, but it will give immense enjoyment throughout its life.

[35]
Focused on precision rather than intensity, unveiling a subdued, refined nose of bitter orange zest, crunchy blackberries and iron, with smoky and woody undertones. The palate is more expansive, offering a fine line of blood orange acidity intertwined with sour cherry, balsamic herbs, and a darker earthy nuance. Seamless but impactful tannins accompany a firm, ferrous and savoury finish.

[36]
Delightful from the get-go, it exhibits balsamic herb, dusty earth, black tea and dried cherry. Elegantly weighted but properly mouth filling, the palate brings in savoury iron, thyme blossom and a blood orange tang. Sweet tannins are seamlessly embedded giving crisp structure. Firm yet friendly. Leaves behind a mineral trail.

[37]
From an understated toastiness, it unfurls with peonies and fennel blossom until intense balsamic notes take a heady hold. Padded with fleshy red cherry, this has plenty of stuffing for its frame, and the dry, powdery tannins are solidly built. This just needs time to marry, lingering with appetising iron and blood orange.

[38]
This is one of the more robust wines showing impressive density and power, with grippy apple-skin tannins that never overwhelm. Those tannins frame vibrant red-berried fruit, savoury spice, dusty wild-herb notes, and lifted rose-petal aromatics. Despite its structure and depth, the wine retains excellent tension, energy, and drive, carrying confidently through the finish.

[39]
Still with a good ten years ahead of it, this has an alluring, broody depth, with herbal and spicy details dancing around the sour cherry, cassis and cranberry fruit, which explodes juicily on the mid palate. Underneath, there's a moreish layer of prune, fig and portobello mushrooms, cloaked in cedar, thyme, oregano and sage - all sprinkled liberally with salty liquorice and vanilla.

[40]
A rim of bergamot and blood orange zest outlines the mulberry, cherry and blackcurrant fruit, with beautiful floral nuances (violets and dried roses) in the background. Great definition to the tannic framework, with spicy vibrancy. Lively finish, with a tail of cedar, tangerine and pomegranate juice.

[41]
The 2023 exhibits the floral marker of the vintage with a supporting spicy accent. Violet, lavender and sage blossom are among its attractive perfumes. A stony, petrichor snap underscores the red plum palate. Lean tannins provide a balancing frame. Like the 2022 edition, this vintage is less commanding than previous years, but it still subtly flexes sinewy muscles.

[42]
The wine is strikingly bright and fresh, with lifted, floral-driven aromatics marked by blood orange and grapefruit zest. Medium-bodied and finely detailed, there's crunchy red fruit that builds with white pepper and integrated cedarwood. It shows a saline mineral character alongside sagebrush notes and fine-grained, powdery tannins. The finish is long, precise and refreshing, underscoring the wine's clarity, energy and poise.

[43]
Saturated in colour and full of vigour, it boasts pristine, beautifully formed fruit. Ripe and firm dark red cherry suffuses the core, and violet and lilac rise from its depths. An underlying salinity amps up the freshness while the sturdy frame gives confidence for ageing. Great energy – and it carries its alcohol with grace.

[44]
Plum, cherry, raspberry, wild strawberry and redcurrant over a bed of juicy roasted tomatoes. Dark chocolate, coffee and cardamom play in the background. The tannins are fine and subtly grippy.

[45]
Even after being chilled, the ripe dark plum and cherry compote notes leap from the glass, seasoned with rose petal jam. Soft and juicy, with a fine touch of tannin. Simple but pleasantly balanced by a hint of sweetness.

[46]
A bouquet of dark fruits such as cherry and plum, spiciness with piment and dark chocolate, distinctive yet silky tannins and lively acidity. Intense, the longest, the most complex, the most impressive of the vintage.

[47]
Vibrant blackberry, mulberry with a sour-cherry lift, framed by sweet, coconut-tinged oak and floral notes. Bold, robust and firmly structured with high acidity and oak-leaning tannins. Persistent but needs time to integrate.

[48]
Seductive and sensual, this beauty exudes pressed dark flowers and all-encompassing Asian five-spice. Chestnut and bitter roots inject a countering element to the sweet, glossy fruit that expands across the palate. Long, chalky tannins wrap around the red cherry core, building with density, and steely acidity cleanses the mouth.

[49]
This expressive red is marked by tart red berries, black cherry, and spiced plum notes leading the way, unfolding across a medium-bodied palate with cocoa powder tannins and hints of Earl Grey tea. The finish is long, with lovely stony mineral tension adding lift and precision.

[50]
Friendly and clean, the palate shows some high-toned tannin accentuated by the acidity, but the overall sense comes across in a mid palate with friendly plum and brambly red fruit character.

[51]
Pronounced tobacco and Chinese five spice with smoky Lapsang tea. Mouthcoating and velvety, the umami-driven palate reveals dried cherry, truffle and hints of walnut. Assertive, tight-knit tannins tug persistently. Wide drinking window ahead.

[52]
This Sangiovese shows generous layers of cherry, spice and tangy herbal notes in a medium-bodied package. The tannins are soft and supple and the overall impression is fresh and elegant with a well-managed finish.

[53]
Pale ruby in colour and with great clarity and definition of dark fruit and sweet spice aromas, with touches of laurel and wild herbs in the background. The palate is intense and bone-dry, with tightly packed tannins, very firm acidity, great length, and the tangy mineral finish typical of Gattinara. The structure is impressive and the ageing guaranteed.

[54]
Beautiful detail and freshness on the nose, where fennel, fresh oregano and tomato jam playfully mingle. Intensity and grip on the edges, and savoury density on the mid-palate, supported by chalky, grippy tannins. Black olive tapenade and plum fruit at the core, with touches of fig leaf and cherry leaf. Beautiful wet-stone freshness underneath.

[55]
The wine shows attractive maturity. Over the years it has become smooth, supple and well integrated, with dark cherry fruit and toasty oak, refreshed by lively freshness.

[56]
All bright cherry fruit, cedarwood and clove. A rich, creamy, decadent core holds the sweet, fleshy berry fruit, while gentle tannins frame a host of brown-baking-spice notes and wet-stone minerality. The finish is firm, poised and impressively persistent.

[57]
Meaty, fleshy depth, plump black cherry and a juicy core. Soft round tannins, fresh vibrancy and tertiary hints create an elegant, well-balanced, structured style.

[58]
Pure blueberry and red cherry fruit, with underlying cherry liqueur and oiled leather characters. The texture is silky and velvety with slight grip from ripe tannins. Fruity, rich, and intense flavours are perfectly balanced with a hint of oak and crunchy acidity.

[59]
Understated but patently pretty, the nose haunts with tangible porcini and sandalwood against a backdrop of crushed raspberry. That earthy sweetness persists as the wine tumbles lightly over the palate, culminating in scrumptious red summer berries. Bright acidity accentuates accents of orange zest and tangerine, and the long, silky tannins are seamlessly woven in. A simmering potpourri of wildflowers lifts the finish.

[60]
Appealing aromas of ripe dark fruit, raspberry jam, orange rind and coffee bean, this wine offers fine texture, albeit somewhat larger grained tannins. A bit of a mouth puckering aspect to the finish, but the savoury mid palate and juiciness evident.

[61]
Bright, energetic and very fresh, with a waft of herbs, succulent cherry and strawberry fruits, and fine, grainy tannins. Drinking surprisingly well now but with the stuffing to reward cellaring.

[62]
Detailed and dancing wine, with Negroni-like herbal and dried orange peel aromatics, leading to an intricate palate of crystalline red fruit with fine, Nebbiolo-like tannins.

[63]
This pure, dense Syrah is packed with blackberry, cracked pepper and sweet vanilla-spiced oak flavours. Brimming with energy, you can taste the sappy, stemmy whole-bunch fruit, which is lifted by bright acidity, floral finesse and bold tannins. Delicious now but will keep a decade or more.

[64]
The palest and most tawny in hue of the lineup, the 1985 reveals its aromas furtively: true to the classic restraint of Bussia. With coaxing, potpourri nuances intensify against an earthy backdrop of iron and tar. The palate is ethereally weighted but with a depth of mature fruit leather. Though the tannins are fully resolved, this is neither soft nor tired. Acidity provides a lively tang, and a salty savouriness lingers.

[65]
Juicy blueberry fruit, rather than cherry, which is clear, precise and polished. Green spice remains only as a background note, supported by subtle hints of oak, coffee and dark chocolate. The tannins are fine-grained, gliding smoothly into the endless finish.

[66]
It is still magnificently detailed and velvety in mouthfeel. Forest undergrowth, mace and cured leather permeate throughout, bringing a richness to the mature fruit. Dried cherry is swaddled in layers of silky tannins, while tangy rust and salty minerals make the mouth water. Freshness meets seduction.

[67]
Bright cherry, plum, violet and rose. Juicy and fresh with red berries, lively acidity and round tannins. Pure, tangy and well-balanced with an unforced, vibrant charm.

[68]
Well-balanced, with ripe mulberry fruit and notes of liquorice, flint and spice, leading into a texture that initially seems very silky but whose grippy tannins appear with time and carry the wine to a lingering finish. This will open after three to five years and should drink well for a further 15.

[69]
Ripeness and concentration are palpable in this hedonistic offering, yet it avoids jamminess as fruit purity is kept intact. Leather, vanilla and rust permeate the wild red berry core, while soft, plush tannins give luxurious layers that are stratified by sweet acidity. A generous and immediate Brunello with legs and stuffing for the next decade.

[70]
Red fruits, cherries, figs and plums. Hints of bitter almond, tomato vine and tobacco. Acidity lifts the complex, tense palate. Mocha, cocoa and savoury spice add depth. Firm structure and well-judged oak promise graceful evolution.

[71]
Savoury leather, damson and ripe berry fruit. Chewy texture, grainy tannin, flinty lift, mocha depth and a resonant, long finish.

[72]
This village cuvée leads with dill, mint and nutmeg atop strawberry. It sits gracefully in the mouth with an appealing tarry, cherry compote flavour and a touch of oak spice. Tannins build through the mid-palate with a touch of dryness before yielding to a softer, powdery texture. Tidy and mouth-cleansing.

[73]
The 2023 is a 'super drinkable and chillable red', with aromas of eucalyptus, wild berries, a hint of minerality, and a peppery touch that follows through on the palate. The wine has a lovely texture, dusty, soft tannins, and a fresh, lifted finish.

[74]
This wine is rich and layered, with notes of cherry, espresso bean, clove, and blood orange. Velvety tannins frame an intensely flavourful mid-palate. With pure fruit, excellent tension and energy, and satisfying concentration, this is a wine delivering both complexity and approachability.

[75]
It is as deeply coloured as it is intense. Oak spice, mocha, cedar and mint ooze from the glass. The palate is densely packed with dark red cherry. An array of accents includes liquorice root, tobacco and iron. There is power and force, yet tannins are remarkably velvety. Admirably balanced in its proportions but best to allow its youthful exuberance to subside.

[76]
The wine is brightly alive with pure cherry and cranberry fruit, alongside Rooibos tea notes and hints of red liquorice drifting from the glass. On the palate, it is layered with super-fine, compact, tightly knit tannins that feel like superfine sand, carrying through to a chalky mineral finish. There's a pop of white pepper and tangerine oil on the nose that reappears on the long finish.

[77]
Tannic and tightly coiled, its bright, sapid core is saturated with dark, vibrant berries and touches of spice. It's not giving much away at this moment, but given time it will reveal all of its poised beauty.

[78]
Mineral-driven and savoury, it bears a distinct family resemblance to Scarzello's village bottling, amping up the density and richness of red fruit with an almost compote-like character. Tart cranberry counters, while tar, wet leaves and smoke waft in the background. The tannins are youthfully intense though not hard, and this should all meld with a few more months in bottle. Quite a singular Barolo.

[79]
This Pinot Noir exudes elegance and freshness. A distinct top note of saffron gives it an exotic lift and allure, providing vividness to the cranberry and cherry fruit. The tannins are fine and zesty, drenched in blood orange juice. A beautiful, moreish veil of leather and roast beef balances lifted elegance with delicious fleshiness.

[80]
The aromas of cardamom, coriander, mint and mandarin amplify heady perfumes with an exotic tangle. The palate is equally fragrant as wet stone and lavender lace through wild strawberry and raspberry. This is expansive and profound in flavour, precise and confident in structure, yet agile and light on its feet. Tightly knit chalky tannins provide support, while the finish lingers with mineral, minty length.

[81]
A model of elegance and quiet authority. Tangy dark cherry and wild herbs combine with earthy tobacco leaf and cedar, all framed by supple tannins and a bright acidity. Sangiovese at its finest.

[82]
Remarkable intensity of black fruit, spice and mocha, this elegant blend showcases integrated tannins, a round texture and persistent freshness with lively acidity.

[83]
Subtle oak top notes suggest vanilla and wood spice. These meld seamlessly with distinct Mediterranean scents of mint and rosemary. Fully charged, upfront tannins wrap around a lush dark plum and peach-laden core; the countering, citrussy backbone coaxes out a tangerine tang. Finishes a tad dry, though another year in bottle could sort that out.

[84]
Discreetly awaft with medicinal herbs, tobacco and smoke, the nose conveys a moody overtone. Dark forest berries lurk at the core with hints of iris root and orange peel. This has slightly more power than flesh. Powdery tannins cling persistently. Not quite ready to divulge itself.

[85]
Enveloping aromas of ripe fruit, black cherry, figs, liquorice, sweet spices and balsamic hints. The soft, round, textured palate with fine tannins and innate elegance.

[86]
Light on its feet with crisp acidity and sappy fruit tannins, it is packed with summer pudding fruit, rosehips and dried herbs.

[87]
An austere nose reveals hints of fruit, undergrowth, nutmeg and cinchona. Its well calibrated structure moves rhythmically and substantially on multiple levels in the mouth, with a very lively finish. The tannins are present but well harmonised. While enjoyable now, it will be even more so in the years to come.

[88]
Vividly fresh red berry fruit and agreeable sweet notes of strawberry jam presage a palate of fine structure delivered in suave tannins. The wine has enough structure for aging, with an excellent longer term drinking window.

[89]
Opens with aromas of blueberry tart and warm baking spices. The palate is rich with ripe, intense blue fruit that carries through a long, fruit-driven finish, with spice playing a supporting role.

[90]
This takes some coaxing to tease out exotic spice, walnut and orange zest. A juicy mix of sour red and dark black cherry fills out the palate. Clayey tannins are well formed and persistent. A deftly balanced expression of the ample fruit and ripe sturdy structure.

[91]
Toasty top notes make way for dark berries, leather and wet stone. Full yet juicy, it is amply packed with black cherry and blackcurrant, and a creamy texture meets firm, chalky tannins.

[92]
Beyond classic scents of yellow broom, it exhibits sweet herbs, baked stone and a hint of sundried tomato. The compact, dark cherry core is corseted by assertive and dry, sand-textured tannins. Lovely floral notes poke through and the finish introduces an iron-like element.

[93]
The 2021 is almost opaque in hue, with penetrating aromas to match. Exotic spice, medicinal herbs, pine and cedar dominate at this early stage. Densely packed with blackcurrant, rhubarb and chinotto, it has a distinct bitter edge, as well as underlying freshness. The tannins are broad, powerful and a bit dry, though there is ample stuffing to absorb them. Just a bit austere at the moment.

[94]
Bold and deeply coloured in the glass, the nose is rich and almost confectionery, with aromas of chocolate-covered cherries and crystallised fruit. The palate is round and slightly creamy, showing ripe berry flavours alongside a sour note reminiscent of plum skin. Tannins unfold with a cocoa-powder grip, finishing with a touch of warm spice.

[95]
Striking black cherry, ripe red berries and lifted notes of lavender and rosemary. The palate marries power with refinement, firm yet silken tannins, a spice-tinged finish of notable length and harmony.

[96]
Vibrant cranberry, cherry and violet, layered with toasty herbal notes. Silky tannins, lively acidity and a long, mineral finish underline its elegance and ageing potential.

[97]
Inky and dense; cassis, sloe and black cherry layered with clove, nutmeg and prominent oak. Polished yet drying tannins give structure to the soft core. Dark-fruited and harmonious.

[98]
Chiselled minerality and transparency of fruit. The tannins are soft and poised, supporting the plum, red cherry and blood orange flavours with ease.

[99]
Lovely aromas of red cherries, earth and leather signal the complexity emerging from the matured bottle. The palate is still vibrant, with sour-cherry and pomegranate freshness and chewy tannins.

[100]
Scents of earthy tea leaves, tobacco, pressed rose and mint blossom emerge evocatively. The palate is tightly stitched around warm red berries, and while terracotta-like tannins maintain a steady grip, there is enough breathing room for everything to be expressed.

[101]
Balsamic in fragrance with a rusty twist and fresh-turned earth, it opens with intensity and intrigue. Dark red cherry and liquorice are firmly enfolded in crisp yet supple tannins; power and elegance are an equal match. It boasts the greatest textural density of the lineup.

[102]
Syrah-driven exotic spice and game mingle with candied red fruits, pot-pourri, raw cocoa and balsamic herbs. Saline minerals and refreshing acidity support a gently extracted, mid-weight core of sweet but pristine Merlot fruits. Seamless tannins caress a multifaceted and effortlessly elegant finish.

[103]
The 2022 is classic Serralunga: clean and limpid, it arrives with dark raspberry, currants, brushwood and dried rosemary. Upfront in power, the tannins take hold quickly expanding with a dusty texture. Proportionally padded with dark forest berries, this is sinewy rather than rich. Sappy acidity quenches the mouth.

[104]
The wine is layered with white pepper character and rich mulberry and jammy strawberry fruit, exactly as you'd expect from this blend, but with an added lift of cooler blue-fruited nuance. Everything is supported by a framework of velvety tannins that build through to a long, bright finish. It brings a freshness and ageability factor that feels entirely new for this bottling.

[105]
Aromas of sea salt, thyme, red plum skin, sundried tomato with toasted background oak creating spice. Eyebrow-raising acidity aligned with chalky tannins providing buoyancy. Vibrant red fruit with dusty peppy tree and brine; edging towards jumpy, but the fruit weight keeps it in the vibrant racy category. Classic Margaret River with brine, dusty eucalypt and chocolatey red fruit; plenty of pleasure and juice. Rosehip spice kick on finish.

[106]
It presents an enticing interplay of slightly candied dark berries, liquorice, black pepper, and a varietal herbal touch. The palate-wrapping core of candied dark fruits incorporates serious tannins and vibrant, ripe acidity, leading to a medium-long finish enlivened by a green touch.

[107]
Classic lifted Margaret River cassis with fresh ocean brine, nori, satsuma plum, cooling granite and a touch of myrrh. Balanced if slightly grainy tannins, with notes of nigella and caraway seed, strawberry top and hibiscus florals. Prickles of wild spice and Sichuan pepper with knife-like acidity. Firm, ripe tannins with poised width and length – and plenty of persistence.

[108]
The nose offers baking spices—cinnamon and cloves—alongside bright red fruit. On the palate, medium tannins support the primary fruit notes in a simple, easy-drinking profile.

[109]
With cherry, liquorice, plum and candied red fruit this medium-bodied wine attacks briskly and exhibits lots of verve with grippy and somewhat firm tannins. The finish is marked by bright red fruit.

[110]
Amaro and herbal bitters mingle with boozy strawberry and balsam for a complex, mineral-tinged palate supported by charming, slightly rustic tannins. Precisely built, with both depth and lift.

[111]
Opera in Rosso displays ferrous and gamey nuances overlay crunchy red cherries and an alluring, almost Negroni-like bitter orange tinge. Elegant and polished, soft tannins and judicious acids underpin the luscious core of sucrose red fruits, shaping a plump, approachable mouthfeel with a long, airy finish.

[112]
Brooding dark and subtle black cherry, blueberry and smoky earth with hints of game and blood. Smooth texture, gritty tannins and baked earth. Pleasant and integrated, with lasting grip.

[113]
It starts with pepper and alpine herbs, before scents of rose and strawberry take hold. The dark red fruits demonstrate a salivating juiciness, underscored by a saline twist. Well-knit tannins are integrated, becoming slightly rigid on the backend. Trails off with dusty sage and oregano.

[114]
Beefy, bold. Attractive, fruity mix of red apple and black cherry on the nose lead into a really rich and rounded palate. Mouthfilling ripe black cherry, blackberry jam and spun sugar balance the grippy tannins.

[115]
It proposes scents of cinnamon, forest brush and walnut. Packed with both dark wild berries and red cherry compote, this remains savoury rather than sweet. It is tightly knit in structure with just enough concentration and brawn. Tannins are well defined and provide a dry, chalky bite on the finish.

[116]
Their complexities are brilliantly teased out in this 2022: anise, dusty brick and tar infuse cherry liqueur, with pomegranate and dried lavender contributing on the palate. It demonstrates vigour and tension with elegance, tactile and grainy tannins, and acid that is pleasantly tart. Pulverised stone speckles the finish. A thrilling rollercoaster, yet still tightly corseted throughout.

[117]
The 2022 is just so classically fragrant and expressive. Pepper, strawberry blossom, pressed rose and beeswax waft headily. Lightweight but not lacking in flavour, the palate surges with red forest berries sprinkled with mint. Zesty, citrussy acidity makes the mouth water. Crisp tannins have a snappy firmness yet this glides with grace. Exceptionally precise and complex.

[118]
The deep ruby hue a hint at what is to come. Sweetly fruited on nose, there is a soft perfume of cherries, blackberries and forest fruits, with a touch of sweet spice. Its well balanced in the mouth, a lovely balance of mouthwatering acidity and fine tannins with a weight of black plum and tart sour cherry, cranberry fruit, some rosehips, a hint of cloves, and subtle toasty oak on the finish.

[119]
Bright but not saturated ruby, the 2021 expresses itself with class from start to finish. Subtle scents evoke alpine rose, almond blossom, brushwood and roasted chestnut. Pristine and taut, the palate is unequivocally savoury, as an undercurrent of iron and blood runs through the deep and spacious redcurrant core. Slightly austere, tactile tannins enfold with confidence. With a lengthy, minerally finish.

[120]
This has the sumptuous velvetiness of a Central Otago Pinot Noir, with hedonistic black plum and dark cherry jam fruit, but with a firm line of freshness through the middle as a counterbalance, and sweet, pliable tannins. Utterly beguiling and seamless.

[121]
In 2023, the result is nothing short of magical. The wine delivers ample power and structure, yet remains remarkably refined and savoury. Unctuous on the medium- to full-bodied palate, it shows cocoa-powder tannins alongside gorgeous rose-petal florality, finishing long with slate-like minerality and loamy earth character.

[122]
A beautiful, bright deep ruby introduces this youthfully reticent edition. Still very primary in its mix of plum, rhubarb and wild strawberry, an explosion of florals washes over the palate with white blossoms, rose and violet. There's just a mere suggestion of earthier, mineral depths at the moment. Fine, light tannins are intricately stitched, and luscious yellow plum and cinnamon grace the finish. While undeniably tantalising now, this should have more profundities to share in a few years.

[123]
This delivers a vivid profile of blue fruit, riveting dark raspberry, and mineral tension, all wrapped in hauntingly floral aromatics. The palate is medium to full-bodied, with richness that never tips into excess. Everything is in balance—fruit, freshness, structure. The tannins are superfine and velvety, and the finish goes on for days.

[124]
All about freshness and energy. Herbal, inky berries and plum are joined by touches of cocoa and coffee. Juicy cherry and orange peel along with some salinity seep into the mid-palate, while some fresh mint emerges on the long, succulent finish. Sapid and bright, this is just so drinkable but will also reward cellaring.

[125]
Rich and intense dark cherry and wood mingle with herbs and subtle spices. The acidity and tannins are in harmony, not getting in the way of the fruit – although this needs more time to come together. Fresh and bright yet with good depth too.

[126]
Seductive blueberry, blackberry and plum with gentle spice and earthy undertones. Vibrant acidity and softly grippy tannins support ripe, generous fruit, finishing savoury and thoroughly enjoyable.

[127]
The Rocche dell'Annunziata bottling leads with dried strawberry and preserved red plum, then opens to cinnamon, orange and a hint of miso. Eventually, red flowers carry over onto the midweight palate, which starts slim then fans out with a richness of fruit on the back end. It fills out as it sits in the glass, while sandy textured tannins are speckled all over the mouth, lingering with pepper and mace.

[128]
The wine has a deep purple-blue colour and a pronounced mulberry aroma, with bramble and spice flavours. The texture is firmly tannic but supple, and the finish lingers delightfully.

[129]
This second release is captivatingly scented with mint, alpine herbs and Chinese spices. It boasts an energy and tension not always evident in Campogiovanni's rich, robust wines. Chalky tannins cling decorously to buoyant red berry fruit, underscored by pepper and liquorice. Lovely balance and already drinkable.

[130]
The 2021 divulges its balmy, southeastern origins with all the robustness and vigour one would expect, while managing to remain surprisingly poised. Nevertheless, this veers more to power than grace. A youthful wood imprint is absorbed by the fleshy, dark-toned fruit. Eucalypt, nutmeg and tarragon infuse. The bold and grainy tannins need more time to resolve.

[131]
It is a captivating medley of tertiary nuances with freshness and just the right amount of oak. Subtle scents of white chocolate weave through bay leaf, crushed granite and moss. Replete with red plum and strawberry, the palate is smooth, seamless and slightly unctuous, offset by a peppery liveliness. Ripe, grainy tannins command graciously, giving a stony grip on the finish.

[132]
Characterful nose of distinct, alluring roasted peppers, tomatoes and artichokes. Deep, slightly confected profile to the fruit, but with a crunchy bite. Tannins are ripe, smooth and deliciously meaty. The palate has darker notes of liquorice and Turkish coffee. A lot of personality and intrigue in a wine that has depth, but also an appealing, crunchy freshness.

[133]
This is a very pretty wine, defined by exceptional brightness and gorgeous red and blackberry fruit. Violet nuances, sagebrush, and blueberry aromatics lift the nose, while dynamic mineral tension and velvet-textured tannins shape the palate. The finish is long, spicy, and utterly gorgeous.

[134]
Black plum and mulberry fruit, along with a suggestion of mint and anise. The texture is more substantial, with medium body, impressive density and velvety tannins. This will doubtless mature fairly early but has the substance to age for decades.

[135]
Vibrant, juicy and with lively acid. Crunchy cassis, cranberry, sour cherry and plum coat the mouth with zesty energy. Firm, pleasant grip throughout.

[136]
Lifted, minty notes on the nose, with touches of underbrush and barnyard underneath the ripe red cherry fruit. The palate is pretty juicy and succulent, showing off sweet raspberry fruit. Fine tannins provide a taut structure, finishing dry and long. Hints of sweet vanilla and toast. A classy wine.

[137]
The understated 2022 expresses itself in hushed tones for now. Restrained aromas of vanilla and balsamic herbs overlay dark forest berries. Svelte and linear, it glides smoothly across the mineral-inflected palate. Suggestions of sandalwood, tobacco and mint add to its appeal. The tannins are crisp, and concentrated zesty acidity bolsters the backbone. It should unfurl over the next decade.

[138]
Damson and berry richness shaped by subtle toasted spice. Smooth texture and a core of generous fruit. Great length, finishing bright and harmonious with dark-fruit clarity and effortless flow.

[139]
At first tightly coiled, the wine gradually unfurls to reveal layers of crunchy red-berry fruit, bright brown baking spices and crushed-stone minerality. Medium-bodied, it offers velvety, iron-laced tannins and juicy blood-orange acidity, with earthy notes, rose-petal florals, and rich, building tannins that carry through the lengthy finish.

[140]
Subtle aromas of red and black cherry with toasted wood notes lead to an intense, focused palate with textural heft. Sticky kirsch flavours are framed by some woody structure and darker fruits behind.

[141]
Attractive notes of new leather on the nose, followed by a soft, easy-going palate that's fresh and approachable. Notes of autumn leaves come with air. Tannins are just a touch dry on the finish. It has the characteristic finesse of the house.

[142]
The 2023 is discreet yet attractive. Subtle spring blossoms meld with exotic medicinal herbs and a hint of mocha. Ripe red berries seep across the palate, buoyed by appetising, citrussy acidity. The tannins are chalky and refined.

[143]
Bright nose of baking spice, freshly grated nutmeg, redcurrant and strawberry with fresh brambles. Spring-like freshness opens into blue fruit tones and hushed bush undergrowth with a prickle of aniseed; smelling like a warm spring day. High drinkability with nimble, fine if slightly rough-cut tannins, cracked slate minerality and breezy acidity. A refreshing, mid-weighted Cabernet with plenty of appeal, that's ready to drink now.

[144]
This 100% Tannat is a striking expression of the variety. It emerges with an arresting bouquet of loamy earth, black and redcurrant, ripe plum, warm fruit spice, tobacco leaf, and a touch of molasses. The full-bodied palate is driven by firm, soaring tannins that resolve with poise, carrying layers of brown Indian spice, savoury charcuterie, black tea, pressed wildflowers, and hints of dried fennel and sage. The finish is long, expressive, and finely balanced, revealing a wine of depth, nuance, and regional character.

[145]
Intense cassis, cola and amaro aromas with a waft of menthol introduce a tightly coiled and sapid core framed by grippy, chalky textured tannins. The fruit is wonderfully precise and with good concentration. Dark cherry and blackberry align with balsamic herbs and bright acidity.

[146]
It's inky in colour with a purple hue, filled with gorgeous dark, earthy and chewy black cherry and plum fruit, and some toasty notes. Big, bold and rustic.

[147]
Villero broods a bit, suggesting hazelnut, chestnut and mushroom nuances, before wild yellow broom eventually comes to the fore. The palate packs some weight without over-ripeness, and the dark red cherry is pristine. Frisky tannins need to settle but are poised to remain lively, leading to a chalky finish.

[148]
Dark cherry and baked-fruit depth with smoky, toasty oak and sweet spice. Sleek, with good acidity and textured, chalk-tinged tannins. Fruit remains juicy and balanced despite its evolved, oak-forward profile.

[149]
The nose is an aromatic symphony of mint, tarragon and grilled fennel. These sweet herb nuances join pureed raspberry, red cherry and a hint of coconut on the palate. Polished and pristine, it has plenty of lift. Tannins are sweet and docile. Just a touch spirity on the finish.

[150]
Bright violet-ruby Grenache with vibrant ripe cherry and blueberry aromas. Dark berry depth, balanced acidity and rich texture. Refined toastiness, velvety tannins and savoury edge, delivering smooth length and elegance.

[151]
Elegance defines this richly expressive, silky Rioja. Complex and inviting, the nose is layered with red fruits, sweet spice and a touch of vanilla leading to notes of pastry, biscuit and liquorice, while the palate offers generous flavours of wild strawberry, cherry and redcurrant wrapped in silky tannins. Full-bodied yet remarkably fresh, this is a wine of great character and finesse.

[152]
Inky with a juicy, fleshy core of blackberries, ripe raspberries and plum, lined by black pepper and cardamom. The nose has a sweet aspect of cherry compote and Port-poached pears but the palate offsets this sugary suggestion with good acid and drive. Tannins are robust but soft. Long finish.

[153]
Impenetrable pitch-purple hue, a colossus of a wine. Aromas of crème de cassis, earthy brambles and dark chocolate lead into tarragon and anise. Mouth staining and saturated in dark plum, black currant and deeply embedded oak toast, it's countered by concentrated puckering acidity. Uber sleek to begin, those tannins build to a grippy, gravelly crescendo, yet there are no hard edges: there's a fantastic rebound on the finish as this trickles away with dusty sage.

[154]
Outstanding quality to the tannins, velvety and persistent. Spiced plum, Earl Grey, bergamot, plum, ripe strawberries mingle on the palate, with great vibrancy. Really deep and concentrated.

[155]
Reminiscent of a walk in the woods in autumn: hints of undergrowth, truffles, dry leaves, laurel, late flowers in bloom and damp earth. The sip shows character with tannins that, although still present, have not completely settled, and a slightly rustic finish. It still needs a little time to give its best.

[156]
This Bobal has an assertive, robust quality to it, defined by the grainy smoky tannins, roasted coffee broodiness and Earl Grey fragrance, cloaking a core of creamy cherry sorbet and plum jam. There's also a very approachable side to it, with lively acid. The structure smoothens its edges.

[157]
It has a lifted nose of blackberry, plum, sweet spice and potpourri which follows on to a more savoury yet still plush palate, enlivened by crisp acidity and grippy tannins.

[158]
The 2021 is still young, the oak still prominent in its woody, spicy imprint. It's rich and concentrated, yet remarkably vertical and well balanced, with a vein of freshness breezing through. Dark cherry and berries wait to be released from the oak. Give this time and it should sing.

[159]
Pleasing aromatics of strawberry, blueberry, butterscotch and menthol harmoniously flowing into a fine, poised palate with rounded tannins.

[160]
Standout expression of Colares' flagship red variety Ramisco. At once intense and delicate, with layers of spice, smoke and dried fruit, deftly woven by filigree tannins. Cherry pit, raspberry jam, plum and toasted coffee beans cloaked in dark chocolate and sprinkled with nutmeg, cardamom and salty liquorice. This is drinking beautifully now but still has a long life ahead.

[161]
There is certainly some vigour here, yet this remains polished and tamed. Not overtly expressive to begin, the nose suggests chestnut and crushed gravel before opening to juniper and cardamom. Brambly woodland berries appear on the palate. Acidity sparkles and an appealing touch of bitterness stimulates the appetite. The finish is lively with nutmeg and peppermint.

[162]
Plummy with a herbal lift and a touch of tobacco, the palate offers supple tannins, and an appealing balance of red fruit and savoury notes. With youthful verve, this wine shows off the richness and vibrancy of the variety with layered complexity.

[163]
A pure, fresh and lively wine that strides forth with great aplomb, wearing its red berry character like a fine silk cloak, embroidered with little violets. It's so fluid and soft, and finishes with a layer of fine tannin and a dusting of thyme and crushed rock.

[164]
An initial whiff of vanilla leads to nutmeg-infused dark cherry, with deep red, succulent berries well represented on the palate. Full, with ample, ripe, chalky tannins to structure the richer fruit profile, its bright acidity buoys the wine, while mint, cinnamon and terracotta are strewn tastily throughout.

[165]
Wild, briary and leafy on the nose, with lifted raspberry and kirsch characters. Deep ruby in hue. Not at all cloying or sweet, this has density and concentration, quite notable tannins and subtle oak. Lingering, ethereal notes on the finish.

[166]
Immediate and engaging, the 2023 conveys pure raspberry and red cherry with accents of earth and sage tucked in. It expands with an easy, midweight flow flaunting satisfying depth of flavour. Fine, lightly chalky tannins meld with the fruit crunch. Vibrant acidity gives additional lift. Very attractive.

[167]
Complex, savoury nose of dark chocolate, sloe, damson and cassis. Bramble-plum texture and a core of acidity bring bright freshness. Earthy, smoky notes add depth.

[168]
Superb, smouldering Syrah with meaty bacon fat, dark plum, iron and earthy tones. Robust yet elegant on the palate, showing firm, well-shaped tannins, bright acidity and lingering, concentrated dark fruit on the finish.

[169]
Notes of black cherries preserved in alcohol, cocoa, tobacco and eucalyptus introduce a balanced and enveloping palate with a soft, velvety texture and smooth tannins.

[170]
With vivid and subtle notes of cassis, iris, violet and seashell minerality, this seamless wine impresses. Prominent tannins show refinement with much palate depth and classy juiciness leading to a long finish that denotes both lightness and depth. A quintessential St-Julien with long-lasting potential.

[171]
Discreetly seductive, it slowly unleashes violet, vanilla, tarragon, sweet spice and damp forest floor. The palate is amply loaded with red and black currants without being heavy. Sangiovese's brilliant acidity is on full display. Finessed tannins are well stacked, seamlessly placed and confidently firm. Floral and herb accents rebound on the finish. Taut but not austere, this promises to deliver slowly.

[172]
The pronounced, ripe plummy fruit of Benjamin Leroux's Volnay Mitans is decidedly attractive and given complexity by notes of earth and spice. The fruit continues with an almost sweet feeling on the palate, silky tannins, full body and good length. This should drink well on release and is suited for ageing for a decade or beyond.

[173]
This pours purply in the glass and is a plummy ambush on the nose. Both fruity and floral, with peonies, black forest fruit and black pepper. Delicate tannins linger on the long finish.

[174]
In 2023, the wine is sumptuous and absolutely lovely, layered with deep, dark, dense fruit and ripe, sweetly spiced notes of clove and allspice, alongside cedarwood, loamy earth, and a saline minerality that makes it especially exciting. The finish is incredibly long, with cocoa-powder tannins building and providing the framework for rich, jammy floral and spicy complexity, all balanced by a welcome thread of tension.

[175]
Fragrant, beautiful nose weaving dried violets, coffee beans, sweet liquorice, prune, Earl Grey and plum jam. Very well presented tannins, earthy yet fine. Long tail of tobacco, cherry leaves and dried violets. Very approachable and pleasing now, showcasing elegance and character, but also a lot of potential to age in bottle.

[176]
Aromas of chestnuts, woodland floor and gentle red fruits give it an autumnal character. It's succulent and surprisingly juicy, with a bright core of saline cherry framed by soft, integrated tannins which give a little grip, and some sweet darker berries. Moreish.

[177]
Expressive nose of cherry, bramble and wild strawberry against a backdrop of dried thyme. Luscious yet vibrant on the mouth with the ripe fruit lifted by white pepper, liquorice and dried mint. Underneath, darker notes of coffee bean and dark chocolate. Well presented tannins with a smoky grip.

[178]
The 2023 charms with fluency of expression and immediate graciousness. Gorgeous fragrances of cherry blossom, cocoa and cedar swirl around red plum. Pure blackberry joins in on the elegant and silky palate, gracefully weighted with an underlying juiciness. The tannins are sweet, soft and very finessed, and notes of green tobacco and exotic spice draw out the finish.

[179]
Appealing and pure, it teases with violet, vanilla and sandalwood fragrances. Padded with pulpy blackcurrant and fleshy dark cherry, this is almost fruity in character. A sweet spiciness flits throughout, while soft, copious tannins grip graciously, and lively acidity lends agility to a fuller figure. Culminates with a mineral bite.

[180]
Plum and blackberry with subtle oak sweetness and savoury nuance. Rounded fruit drives a smooth, persistent finish with powdery wood and dark-berry brightness.

[181]
Unfolding attractively, the 2021 wafts with tobacco, bay leaf, vanilla and nutmeg. It is well-padded with taut, ripe fruit. Soft, integrated acidity is sufficient to buoy, and grainy tannins lend plenty of texture and bite, then medicinal herbs tinge the finish. A polished and deftly balanced effort.

[182]
Intensity and elegance here with ripe red fruit lift, cranberry, tomato jam and poached cherries upfront, over a darker, unctuous layer of molasses, roasted coffee beans and melting dark chocolate. Savoury depth with macerated herbs and sweet liquorice lining the tannins. Broody blueberry jam, prune on the back palate, lifted by dried violets and pot pourri. Elegant approachability and potential to age.

[183]
Cherries and plums, fresh floral tones, black pepper, and olive tapenade lead the nose. Bright acidity and gentle tannins shape the palate, which is accented by a black tea note.

[184]
The nose opens with a mix of red, black, and blue fruits. The palate delivers a concentrated core of blueberry compote alongside firm tannins and earthy, stem-driven nuances. Deeply fruited yet grounded.

[185]
The vibrant, floral, cherry and summer-pudding palate is backed by crunchy acidity and chalky tannins.

[186]
Deep dark ruby hue with ripe black cherry, plush red forest fruit and a vegetal hint. Meaty, fleshy and rich with round tannins and bright acidity. Harmonious and will improve with time.

[187]
The wine is incredibly delicious, showing a vibrant red-fruited character layered with Indian spice nuances and ultra-fine, powdery tannins. A long line of crushed stone minerality runs through the palate, finishing with a distinctly saline mineral edge. Bright, expressive, and complex, it captures both energy and finesse in equal measure.

[188]
Initially restrained, it reveals heather, pepper and alpine flowers, followed by a wonderful purity and depth to the raspberry and wild strawberry fruit. Leather and dusty minerals are distributed amply throughout, while refreshing acidity adds zip, boasting a satisfying chewiness and proper support.

[189]
This is a rocking, energetic and deeply delicious Zinfandel. The bouquet offers warm berry compote and fragrant cedarwood, underscored by a hint of hot gravel. On the palate, the wine comes alive with fleshy, juicy red berry fruit laced with herbes de Provence, carried by firm, beam-like tannins that are well integrated and resolve into sweet spice on a lengthy finish.

[190]
Plenty of ripe plums and blackberry, with high-toned red fruit and prominent oak toast aromas. The palate is tangy and smooth enough, with acidity accentuating more a red fruit character, but with some astringent tannins on the finish.

[191]
Garnet in colour, with tell-tale sour cherry fruits and hints of herbs and dried flowers, it has a savoury overtone on the palate, supported by herbal-spiced tannins and minty freshness. Robust structure met with great concentration. Wood spices and a touch of warmth towards the finish.

[192]
Stylish in a very buttoned-up manner, it is rather understated and sneaky in its charms. Seductive scents of toast, blackberry, cherry and Mediterranean herbs emerge with coaxing and eventually take hold. Creamy in texture with long, velvety tannins and a juicy core, this offers exceptional freshness for the vintage and promising length.

[193]
The 2022 is exceptionally approachable, with generous, plump, velvety tannins that still carry mountain intensity, but are beautifully integrated. The wine boasts a vibrant core of juicy mulberry fruit, perfumed with notes of thyme, rosemary, and sage. It finishes with a precise ironstone minerality and a subtle saline edge, reminiscent of pink Himalayan salt.

[194]
Pure, vibrant ripe cherry, cherry cough sweets, dried herbs and a long raspberry finish, with sappy fruit tisane tannins. Quaffable yet complex.

[195]
This Morellino di Scansano offers intense aromas of sweet red cherries, redcurrants, liquorice and violet pastille that anticipate an immediately pleasing, open-knit palate. Smooth tannins frame the core of juicy red fruits alongside well integrated acidity, while hints of iodine, undergrowth and Mediterranean herbs emerge gradually and echo on the medium-long finish.

[196]
Top-notes of leather and mocha meld with orange zest and Mediterranean forest flora. Cherry compote and fresh blackberry emerge as it sits in the glass. This is impeccably coiffed but still almost painfully young. The black brambly currant, candied violet and crushed stone core is tightly wrapped in endless layers of fine, grainy tannins. That firm grasp eventually cedes, allowing a succulent undertow to kickstart the saliva glands. Luscious acidity buoys the whole, and incense wafts headily throughout.

[197]
A wine with approachable complexity and elegant rusticity. Crunchy plum and mulberry fruit with a delicious seam of coffee beans and dark chocolate. Deft integration of both wood and alcohol. Pleasant grip, at once zesty and savoury.

[198]
Ripe, youthful nose of cherry, plum, violets and liquorice, nutmeg and dried fruits giving lift. Rich, warming and velvety with smooth tannins. Concentrated finish, with warming alcohol.

[199]
A flowing but focused wine just beginning to show hints of savoury development, but still dominated by bright red cherry and ripe plum flavours and mouthwatering raspberry-pip acidity. It has great intensity and power but is not at all heavy, with great tannin structure for further ageing.

[200]
Bright and medium-bodied, it offers creamy red berry fruit and brown spices redolent of coriander and cardamom. Fragrant and layered, it shows fine-grained tannins and an expressive saline minerality.

