ROSE — Cluster 1: Elegant, mineral pale rosés with floral lift and stone fruit
825 wines total | 200 sampled
============================================================

[1]
The zingy pink grapefruit flavours aren't complex, but fresh and fruity with mouthwatering herbal acidity.

[2]
Pink onion colour and orange peel aromas. Highly attractive with distinctive nuances. Extremely particular style.

[3]
Creamy water white. Pretty floral grapefruit on the nose, punchy red berries and aromatic peach aromas. Delicate, refreshing, zesty, clean crunchy red fruit, a faint saline twist and bright orange citrus on the finish, with a firm mineral backbone and long fresh acidity. Great balance of citrus and red fruit, bright acidity, nice phenolic weight and good intensity.

[4]
This offers typical Provence characters of spicy red fruits and fresh acidity, with a sweetness at the core.

[5]
The palest of pale, this is a unique wine. White floral aromas emphasise the paleness before opening up to more complex notes of blood orange, ripe citrus, cloves, nutmeg and more white flowers. It has a fine chalky texture with fresh acidity and long, structured minerality. Still very closed and young, this is a rosé for ageing to allow the fruit to emerge.

[6]
Neutral aromatics, still closed and youthful. Some dark berries and hints of minerality. The oak structure is more evident after some air. It's rich and opulent, with nutty, dense notes that are not so reliant on fruit. The acidity is nicely balanced and well integrated. It has a lovely structure, but is lacking fruit on the nose.

[7]
Fresh strawberry and violets on the nose, while orange peel and fresh herbs on the palate bring intensity and freshness.

[8]
Pale copper with restrained aromas of thyme flowers and wild fennel. On the palate, this restraint opens up to an explosion of ripe stone fruit, bruised peaches and apricots, some raspberry fruit and a hint of rhubarb acidity. Pomegranates and rosehips appear on the mid-palate, with barely there tannic grip and a gentle, almost gravelly acidity. The finish is long, intense, and lightly peachy with a subtle salinity. Very classy.

[9]
This Chiaretto displays focussed red fruit aromas with some texture and creaminess in the mouth, followed by black pepper on the finish. The acidity seems a touch lower than most of the others tasted here, making it feel a bit softer in the mouth, and there's perhaps just a touch of residual sugar.

[10]
Almost white in colour. Delicate floral aromas shift on the palate to herbal and leafy flavours. Interestingly layered.

[11]
Dark orange in colour. There's a slight oxidative edge to this wine from the oak that brings in a new dimension of aroma: tobacco, cedar, dried orange rind. Full-bodied and generous on the palate from the oak. Tight, saline, zesty and finishing with a little whisky note. This will take on some burnt sugar flavours in time. A characterful wine.

[12]
Slightly more concentrated in colour, this vibrantly fresh wine has notes of bitter orange, juicy redcurrants, a touch of pomegranate and tamarind and herbal garrigue, confidently giving full bodied-structure. Full of energy, this is a scrumptious modern take on Provence rosé.

[13]
Not overtly fruity on the nose, some subtle berry fruit, but not an aromatic wine. Good acidity, it has a little grip on the finish, very much a structural style and less full-bodied than many Tavels, but it still has that chalky edge and freshness. Relatively pale for its type.

[14]
This enjoyable rosé expression of Caladoc produces fruity, rich character, with a herbal and spicy edge.

[15]
Very delicate aromas. On the palate, dark, sour cherries, crunchy, sour redcurrants and intense blackcurrants all carried along by impressively vibrant acidity. A firm saline minerality gives typical Mourvèdre structure. The fresh fruit and lively acidity makes this a very modern style and particularly accessible when young.

[16]
Salmon pink. Very floral, showing pretty roses, quince and Turkish Delight. Red currants come to the fore on the palate and are eased with its silky but vibrant acidity.

[17]
A soft and mellow rosé with delicate autumnal scents of orchard fruit which gradually becomes rounded and creamy. Red apple, medlar and pear characters pulse outwards, and a nutty complexity creeps in. A little note of beeswax and almond oil, too, and a full-bodied, oily texture. This is a fine rosé, high-class and full of character, structured and serious with potentially years of ageing potential ahead of it.

[18]
Pretty aromas of peaches and cream and a touch of spice. Another level up on concentration, intensity and gravitas. A gently phenolic structure with round, ripe fruit, crunchy redcurrants, fresh strawberries, creamy lees richness and the weightiness and intensity of a reserve-level wine.

[19]
Captivating sweet red-apple aromas and flavours with a herbaceous note to it. There's a distinctive crunchiness to the red fruit character and a chewy, mouth-watering acidity that enhances the lingering mineral finish.

[20]
Red and black cherry aromas and some mineral notes are followed in the mouth by a good concentration of fresh black cherry and herb. Saline and gently tannic with good acidity, this is closer to a red wine than a white wine and an excellent food rosé.

[21]
Delicate dried flower aromas with red currant fruit and a salty minerality on the palate. There's a mouth-filling weight but with enough acidity to keep everything fresh and pleasurable. The creamy fruit, hints of red berries and leafy green freshness give this a lovely sustained finish.

[22]
Deep pink colour. Bone dry, balanced and fresh, with exuberant juicy and ripe but not confected strawberry fruit. A good level of natural acidity.

[23]
A touch more structure and personality-filled red fruit and rose petal – a little more punch, but still with that saline mineral lick. Has a bright finish with lovely persistence.

[24]
Brimming with delicately perfumed florals, rosehip spice, red berries and cherries with a seamless acidity and a satin texture.

[25]
A juicy pink, with fleshy red fruit but also a delicious spiciness that makes it deliciously crunchy. It delivers all the pleasure of an uplifting fresh pink, with simple yet enjoyable flavours of pink grapefruit, cranberries and ripe strawberries.

[26]
Floral and orangey perfume, but just slightly boudoir. Sweet orange and peach Melba fruit with spice and balancing acidity to finish.

[27]
There's a slightly copper hint to the orange-pink colour, and a touch of caramel among the red fruits. Vinous, medium-bodied style with some persistence and structure. The oak element is well judged and works with the wine to produce a rosé for the dinner table.

[28]
A fuller-bodied rosé that balances a ripeness with fresh minerality and sweet fruit. This rosé is showy. This pink shows aromas of watermelon jolly rancher, sweet cherry blossom florals and a note of sea breeze. The palate is complex and leans towards the opulent for a rosé. Bold flavours of sweet cherry cut watermelon and strawberry cream.

[29]
Red apple and cherry aromas and flavours. Good acidity and some spiciness but modest texture, finishing with a slight bitter almond note.

[30]
This pale salmon pink rosé has a hint of Mediterranean garrigue, sweet wild strawberries and tart raspberry aromas. On the palate the raspberry fruit opens out to reveal generously ripe fruit with taut, blood orange acidity and aromatic floral notes. A lovely balance of full-bodied, concentrated fruit with well-integrated acidity, creating a charming wine.

[31]
This rosado is a delicate Provençal pink. Deliciously creamy with delicate strawberry fruit and a touch of peach but a crisp, dry finish.

[32]
Very pale onion-skin in colour, this displays ripe and weighty fruit: peach, crunchy redcurrants, sour cherries and blueberries, leading to some darker minerality in its inner depths. Mouthwatering and chewy, there's a whisper of phenolics on the finish. Very fresh and vibrant with nice weight and structure.

[33]
Bright bubblegum pink. On the nose it's all bubblegum and juicy strawberry and raspberry. Dry, but exuberant and with bags of ripe fruit flavour.

[34]
Creamy pink with light, toasty sweet oak, a touch of smokiness, ripe stone fruit and a hint of green apples. On the full-bodied palate there is a hint of spice and beeswax, ripe peaches and apricots, juicy acidity and subtle tannins from the oak. There is the start of some lovely mellowed tertiary notes giving complexity; this revels in its maturity yet at the same time is quite youthful, with freshness and oak still evident.

[35]
This fresh, unoaked rosé has a bold aroma of red fruits and a simple mouthful of soft red fruits and bitter herbs.

[36]
A lovely balance of red-fruited, gum-tingling acidity and cool, fresh raspberry juice and wild strawberry. A waft of herbiness on the mid-palate then a long, fresh finish.

[37]
Pale, fruit-forward rosé with a luscious core of ripe white orchard fruit covered in cranberry juice and liberally topped with lime zest. Liveliness and freshness from lime and touch of pink grapefruit on the back palate, offsetting the weighty pear and melon on the mid-palate. Touches of fresh grass and fennel add a herbal nuance.

[38]
Pale rosé with delicate aromas. Fresh, pretty with classic Cinsault flavours of pretty pink flowers, white peaches, apples, and pears and zippy redcurrant fruit. Balanced by refreshing, crunchy acidity, charmingly lovely and elegant.

[39]
A pretty floral nose opens up to bright red berries, peaches and summer pudding. Some spice adds to its delicate, fresh finish.

[40]
Subtle hints of oak and ripe red fruit and floral aromas, on the palate there is abundant sweet strawberries and cherries, giving a silky richness, beautifully balanced by a fresh minerality and slightly textured acidity. Charming, ripe white peaches and roasted nuts emerge on the finish.

[41]
A fresh and pithy rosato with delicate cherry and strawberry aromas followed by an intensity of red fruit and pink grapefruit flavours accompanied by some herbs and salinity.

[42]
Lots of vibrant blue and red berry aromas lead onto a rosé which has both abundant ripe blue berry fruit and a hint of crunchy sour cherries balancing firm mineral and austere structure with long grippy acidity and discreet textural phenolics. Mouthwatering grit, texture and length with almost jammy fruit and a touch of florality to give some prettiness.

[43]
Light white peach aromas open out to ripe, creamy white peaches and yellow plums on the palate, some stony minerality and fresh, crunchy acidity. A departure from the fruit and tannic evolution of the Perrin family's entry-level wines, with more accessible, rounded, creamy lees structure opening out with age.

[44]
Quite prominent aromas of sweet red fruits, with a hint of vanilla and spice. The mineral character on the nose and palate is complemented by grapefruit, spice and delicate nuttiness. The creaminess is fresh, flowing and lingering. Very attractive style.

[45]
A wine with a beautiful pale pink colour, and hints of peach, citrus and flowers. Salty, full and flowing.

[46]
A blend that makes a lovely pale, bone-dry alternative to Provence rosé. Pink grapefruit, nectarine, fresh herbs and violets on the lightly spiced palate.

[47]
Ripe red cherry, wild raspberry and redcurrant on the aromas and palate. Acidity is a little too obvious, but balances out the fresh fruit character.

[48]
Golden yellow. Supple, subtle, gentle oak on the nose. The palate starts with creamy richness and ripe, juicy redcurrants supported by long, fresh citrus acidity, crunchy green apples and delicate leafiness. The whole is balanced by nicely integrated oak with inner black fruit structure, texture and a grippy phenolic finish. Stylish.

[49]
Fresh, skin-contact rosé with an impressive savoury character—aromatics of wild meadow florals, rosehip oil, and a lifted note of orange peel. The palate shows hints of amaro, tomato leaf, and a spiced, peppery finish.

[50]
Opulent strawberry fruit aromas with a slight note of coffee. This is ripe and full of juicy raspberry jam fruit, fresh herbs and wild raspberry acidity with a savoury, stony fresh finish.

[51]
Confectionary fruit and an exotic banana character to begin. The finish is modest, easy drinking, with peach fruit dominant.

[52]
Honey and saffron aromas. Fresh zesty acidity - slightly leafy and lime – mineral and a salty fresh palate.

[53]
Very discreet on the nose – still incredibly close and young. It has a cool, sweet sugared almond softness on the palate that evolves quickly into an intense and almost flinty, closed structure. Very much tasting like a white wine with sheer concentration and mineral fullness. Ripe green apples and some riper yellow peaches. Smoky, flinty, creamy oak appears on the finish as it warms up.

[54]
Pale in colour, and delicate in aroma, but well-flavoured with berries and crisp redcurrants, then tumbling down to a fresh finish.

[55]
Aromatic, with a glorious burst of flavour: redcurrant jelly, strawberry jam. The Syrah adds backbone and a finishing grip.

[56]
Beautiful blush, very pale pink colour. Lovely fresh appeal, easy drinking. It's got a nice depth of strawberry fruits that lingers on the tongue. Very balanced, dry with subtle acidity that makes it a pleasurable wine. It has finesse and elegance.

[57]
Deep and ripe! Perhaps slightly reductive on the nose, which smooths out into a richly fruited palate with a mineral depth. This is not an elegant ballerina, but certainly has heaps of character, red fruit, oak influence and substance.

[58]
Delicate blue florals and red berries on the nose open out to a round, soft, elegance and lightly lacy texture. There is good acidity with chalky minerality, the bittersweet oiliness of white almonds, a touch of orchard blossom and a restrained, tight, fine-grained texture. Very closed and youthful, this would benefit from some decanting or putting to one side and opening with a bit of age.

[59]
Darker copper salmon pink. Subtle sweet oak notes on the nose, alongside full and rather generous spice. The oak continues on the palate with a rounded, creamy, nutty structure; spice and delicate florals; vibrant fresh pomegranate acidity; minerality and crunchy red berries. The freshness of the fruit carries it well. Acidity is quite dominant giving a lighter, more elegant finish than most oaked rosés.

[60]
A smooth, silky texture with red berry fruit and fresh mineral acidity. A seriously classy rosé.

[61]
Very lifted strawberry aromatics which follow through on the palate. A New World style which has an Old World herbal twist to the finish.

[62]
A wonderful floral nose bursting with elderflower, peach and citrus. On the palate it's juicy and full of summer berries with hints of grapefruit and underlying minerality. Structured with a lovely soft texture, mouthwatering liveliness.

[63]
Silky soft, velvet texture with intense, long, mouthwatering minerality – the finish just goes on and on. Full-bodied structure with ripe, dark berry fruit, intense crunchy salinity and long, linear, direct attack. Combines both restrained elegance and powerful structure with hidden fruit pushing beneath the surface to appear with age.

[64]
Radiant cherries and juicy red berries infused with energetic orange peel and spice and a lively mineral freshness.

[65]
A creamy texture on the palate is combined with some attractive spicy notes and a hint of caramelised orange. A bite of acidity to finish.

[66]
Youthfully restrained aromas of white flowers, this wine has a combination of freshness and concentration. The character of this wine focuses on texture and structure with some serious intensity of red and black berry fruit. There is fresh acidity, elegant floral notes and a delicate phenolic finish with a touch of saline minerality.

[67]
Quite prominent aromas of sweet red fruits, with a hint of vanilla and spice. The mineral character on the nose and palate is complimented by grapefruit, spice and delicate nuttiness. The creaminess is fresh, flowing and lingering. Very attractive style; also has the ability to age further.

[68]
Soft golden pink. Delicate aromas of honeysuckle, jasmine, satsumas and just a hint of unripe raspberry. On the palate there is some soft, lemon marmalade acidity, spice, ripe orange and apricot fruit, softly gentle, ripe red berries. The soft mellowness is balanced by fresh, zesty acidity and a long, delicate, mineral backbone. Concentrated and complex.

[69]
Pale salmon pink. Floral notes and perfumed peaches on the nose. On the palate, intense weight of juicily ripe yellow peaches, with sun-kissed apricots, a touch of exotic fruit and Mediterranean garrigue with creamy, fresh acidity and edged by restraining maritime salinity.

[70]
Very pale shell creamy peach with sweet creamy rich melon and peach aromas. Energetic and remarkably concentrated on the palate with smooth silky freshness, zesty redcurrant fruits and the biting sourness of wild red berries. Some extra weight with gentle phenolics, fine mineral length and long citrus acidity. Crystalline freshness and lively energy.

[71]
Pale pink, this offers bright pomegranate aromas and direct, lifted acidity. There is some tropical character, particularly on the finish, with a citrus lift.

[72]
Fresh, honeyed ripe fruits on the nose which follow onto the palate, along with sun-ripened red fruits, cherries, peaches and freshly picked raspberries with beautifully balanced acidity. Nice depth and richness on the palate with bright red/black berry fruits and good acidity to balance. There are extra layers of flavour here too. It's well made and has enough concentration to last. Ripe strawberry aromas and strawberry fruit on the palate, which is full and smooth with attractive spice and a hint of honey, ending on a leafy, vibrant freshness.

[73]
Dark pink. Has a touch of tannin, this is more of a clairet than a rosé. The acidity is adequately balanced, and it finishes dry. Brooding, powerful, very dry, approaching a red. It has character and personality.

[74]
Peach yoghurt and quince. Rich saline characters with good minerality. Creaminess with a hint of marmalade and dry herbs.

[75]
It has all the delicacy and freshness you expect from a Provence rosé, but at the same time is lively and expressive, with a good weight of juicy citrus and white currant fruit. Extremely moreish.

[76]
Spicy red fruit flavours are complimented by a nutty edge and crisp acidity. Mouth-watering, stony, mineral notes give beautiful poise and structure, creating a distinctive harmony with the creamy, silky peach notes.

[77]
This bone-dry wine is restrained and refreshing, with clean, lemony and crisp apple flavours and a mineral seam to add interest.

[78]
Light and juicy, this is exactly what you'd expect from Provence rosé. Subtle strawberry and raspberry fruits lead to a fresh finish of white pepper.

[79]
Vigorous spicy red berries intermingled with juicy peach and sweet herbs; textured and firm with a fresh mineral finish.

[80]
Deeper in colour. Fresh as a daisy, with gorgeous cherry, redcurrant and watermelon fruit flavours, some warm white peach notes and a faint hint of menthol. Supple and medium bodied with a hint of salinity on the finish.

[81]
Palest of pale in colour, with a whisper of pink. Creamy peach and apricot aromas lead onto perfume blue floral and lavender notes on the palate, developing mineral, stony, schist notes with a tight inner core and a slightly phenolic finish. Quite neutral, and very restrained. Bone dry with fresh acidity.

[82]
Elegant, slightly creamy red fruit aromas are joined by a brush of herbs. A bit tacky in the mouth at first, it bursts with creamy peach, yellow plum, red fruits, lemon and floral notes, followed by good acidity on the mid-palate which freshens up and lengthens the stony finish.

[83]
Pale salmon pink. Delicate aromas of peach and redcurrant. On the palate, the intense concentrated fruit dominates the wine. The bitter sweet acidity of pink grapefruit, firm, dry phenolics, concentrated dark berries and minerality, make this more of a gastronomic rosé than a simple quaffing wine. This needs a few months more age for the different elements to pull together and indicate good ageing potential.

[84]
Mid pink with a touch of orange. Sage on the nose, lightly vegetal, raspberry leaf. Full-bodied for a rosé, but good acidity and brightness on the palate. Finishes on raspberry and blood orange.

[85]
Delicate floral aromas, peach and red apple too. Clementine fruit flavour with hints of spices and wild herbs add complexity and character.

[86]
Pretty pale cherry red with gentle aromas of red berries and spice. On the palate there is soft, ripe dark stone fruit, with the ripeness creating a charming fullness. Succulent, opulent weight with firm but gentle tannins and balanced fresh saline acidity.

[87]
A pale shell-pink, with delicate peach aromas; the wine opens up to ripe white peach and creamy nut richness, balanced by a long, crisp, saline citrus acidity.

[88]
A gastro style combining smoky, sweet herbals, candied peel and violet florals, with structured oak and a firm mineral backbone.

[89]
Gooseberry green, leafy aromas which follow through to juicy cherries and chocolate. A mineral seam runs through balancing any sweetness and providing a refreshing finish.

[90]
A gorgeously fresh, full-bodied but lively and drinkable wine with a really long, juicy, mouthwatering finish. Expressive, precise and enlivening.

[91]
This translucent Cinsault-Syrah-Grenache blend has a gorgeous aroma of nectarine and wild strawberries, the floral finesse of its youth giving way to cherry and raspberry sherbet. Superbly appetising, it is nothing short of gorgeous with refreshing peachiness, raspberry flair and lavish silky texture. The long-lasting flavours are full across the palate.

[92]
Delicate cherry notes on the nose. Fresh and fruity with an attractive raspberry yoghurt character and quince fruit on the palate. A very pleasant, in-the-sun drink; refreshing.

[93]
Linear freshness, intense citrus zing and a persistent finish with lingering wild strawberry and pink grapefruit notes. Great definition of flavour, a strong mineral backbone, and nuances of raw nuts imparted by partial ageing in oak. Elegant and very enjoyable.

[94]
Appealing pink grapefruit aromas lead to a restrained yet weighty palate of zippy, zesty citrus and redcurrant softened by creamy peach tones.

[95]
Bright geranium pink. Perfumed raspberry and watermelon aromas. In the mouth it's medium-bodied, not overly full. It has good acidity, vivid and intense on the finish with real vivacity and zest.

[96]
Super aromatic wild cherries and fresh hedgerow fruit with a mineral core, a breezy fresh acidity and an appetising chewiness.

[97]
Fresh, spicy aromas with peach and orange fruit dominating. Fresh palate, zippy red berry fruit and bright cherry completing its creamy yet acidic finish.

[98]
Muted, discreet opening, but powdery chalk acidity slowly ignites it to Potpourri, white flowers and spice, with a creamy, crystalline acidity finish.

[99]
A dark-ruby pink that shouts out cherry fruit on the nose opening up to classic concentrated raspberry-Grenache fruit on the palate. Full-bodied dark fruit, easy-drinking, no-nonsense.

[100]
Rose petal pale pink and bone-dry, fresh and delicate. Tangy with attractive red berry notes.

[101]
A calming nose of red berries, the palate is enveloped with creamy white peach, apricots and fresh acidity.

[102]
This rosato has a less expressive nose, with crushed apricots, hints of honey, toasted almonds, and orange peel. The texture is round and rich, with a wide mouthfeel, sun-warmed yellow fruit and nutty tones balanced by a tingling acidity. It is a serious wine with a medium finish.

[103]
A bright, floral style with redcurrant and cherry blossom. Good acidity makes this well balanced.

[104]
Very pale shell pink, this wine starts off deceptively as a delicate pretty pink with fresh acidity. Silky juicy white and green apples, white and yellow peaches and a hint of raspberries compote, with a slightly chalky texture. As the wine opens up, some serious weighty ripe red fruit emerges, crunchy wild red berries with their biting edge acidity emerges. Serious wine only just beginning to hint at mature richness.

[105]
A vibrant, purple dominated colour with crunchy dark fruit flavours to match, with a touch of rhubarb. Hints of spice and rosehip add more complexity to this pleasurable Rosé. The brisk, cooling acidity shines through with a suggestion of sweetness on the finish.

[106]
Aromas of fresh strawberry, white pepper and dried lavender appear on the nose. Flavors of raspberry, plum and fennel combine with a racy salinity to finish the wine. A delicate but complete ode to classic Provence rosé.

[107]
Delicate aromas of red fruit and fresh herbal notes lead on to vibrant, juicy red fruit with a delicate web of leafy acidity and a tang of pithy wild fruit. Well balanced, mouthwatering and elegant, fruit-forward and crunchy.

[108]
Pale red. Loads of floral, red fruit aromas. Juicy red fruit and fresh, redcurrant acidity, some minerality. Dry, fruity, good weight, long acidity.
Deep copper, almost red colour. Ripe, richly fruity, red-fruit and spice nose; cherry, apricot and orange on the palate. Chewy and substantial with fresh, lively acidity.
Deep pink colour, just a trace of orange. Spicy and rich with some clove and red berries. Rich, deep, youthful. Complex and well textured. Keep for a few years ideally.

[109]
Pale rosado that offers bright raspberry and sour cherry with some tropical, pink grapefruit character on the palate. Clean and bright.

[110]
Intense dried fruit on the nose with notes of green tea and herbs, along with a touch of creamy lees. Lots of intense fruit, with soft supple strawberries and cherries and delicate floral notes. It's charming, with its silky creamy weight and buttery shortbread richness, beguiling with its soft fruit, and perfectly balanced by beautifully energetic acidity. A delicious rosé that is definitely going a step further with weight and complexity.

[111]
A pale salmon pink with a nice intensity of ripe stone-fruit aromas and hints of white citrus. On the palate, there is a lovely red berry and white-peach freshness and elegance, with pretty Cinsault almond-blossom notes and a hint of bitter almonds on the finish. Delightful, elegant, lively and refreshing, without shying away from fruit.

[112]
Has a delicious aroma of cherries, herbs and some salinity, while in the mouth it unfurls delicate, beguiling layers of pretty citrus peel, soft peach, subtle red fruit, and white flowers. Wow.

[113]
Muted lemon aromas on the nose. On the palate, concentrated strawberry and raspberry flavours are ripe enough to balance its fresh acidity without becoming confected.

[114]
A little more colour here and a stalkier quality on the nose but there are still exuberant red fruit aromas and hints of cassis. A dash of smoked paprika and a voluptuous creamy texture, this is quite a serious, focused and long-living style for a Rosé.

[115]
The initial notes of mineral, flint and chalk are atypical of what follows. Ripe and juicy peach fruit, apricot too. Velvety and harmonious, a class act.

[116]
A very dark rosé, like a pale red Burgundy. A curious nose, with deep-set cinnamon spice to the blood orange and watermelon aromas. Full-bodied, tense and intense on the palate, with plenty of sappy acidity and a long, vinous, fresh finish with a touch of super-fine tannin. There's no excess fat, this is a fascinating wine.

[117]
Pronounced oak aromas lead to a palate where the oak structure still dominates the red fruit. The fruit, weight and long freshness is all in balance, making it powerful enough to be a serious wine.

[118]
A rosé that offers a light strawberry and cream character alongside a touch of spice. Quite a delicate style despite the oak influence.

[119]
Ripe, dried apricot aromas, leading to rich honeyed apricot fruit on the palate. The richness is tempered by long saline minerality, fresh redcurrant acidity and some gentle jasmine-tea tannins contributing to extra structure.

[120]
This dark, Grenache-led rosé is bone-dry but with pronounced, firm red berry and red cherry flavour, and a hint of orange citrus.

[121]
A delicate nose with a floral hint of herbs – juniper and rosemary. A duality of a wine showing sweetness yet acidic freshness, a touch of coffee, but also saltiness on its linear and appealing finish.

[122]
Pale red, not pink. Beautiful rose water and raspberry scent. Light-bodied, lovely balance, so fresh and full of energy and great acidity. Smashable, yes, but has such personality, and while not long it's perfectly balanced.

[123]
A delicate nose of ripe peach, apricot and pomegranate. Flavours continue on the palate profile with exuberance and a zesty bitterness adds freshness to the finish.

[124]
Vibrant raspberry-red colour. Such lovely vibrancy on the nose – so much more vivid than an average pale rosé. Full-bodied, rich and opulent on the palate with great freshness and balancing acidity.

[125]
Some salinity here, a salty tang to the red berry fruits on the palate. Crisp and fresh, a light touch in the glass with a hint of sweetness and freshness. Quite a delicate style but cool and nuanced with appealing grapefruit zest elements.

[126]
Bubblegum pink in colour. Attractive, bright, subtle red-fruited aroma - no unwelcome banana aromas. Easy-drinking and well balanced. A straightforward early-drinking rosé, but one with character that tastes more of fruit than of the winemaking process.

[127]
A bone-dry blend, it is pretty peaches-and-cream in both colour and taste, supported by crisp acidity and a strawberry finish.

[128]
Pale, hint of amber; nose of nectarine and gentle herb. Hints of fennel, underlying red fruits and savoury twist. Serious gastro style.

[129]
Pale red, darker than their other Tavel cuvées this year. Raspberry and wild strawberry. Has a bit more generosity on the palate, which delivers great salinity, energy, intensity and vibrancy. Tremulous and beautiful, this is a great Tavel.

[130]
Pale coral. Very expressive nose, with an array of soft fruit aromas and an intriguing nuance of Langhe wood ash. Intense, dry, slightly nervy palate with lots of grip and an aromatic finish.

[131]
Spicy red currant fruit, spice and white flower notes, firm and with decent body. Lovely aromatic freshness.

[132]
Floral on the nose with a pinch of Mediterranean herbs. Saline on a soft-textured palate, juicy with pink grapefruit and citrus zest; gentle and poised, leading to a clean finish.

[133]
This blend isn't a shy and retiring style - those looking for super pale and super delicate may want to look elsewhere. There's plenty here to please, with juicy red cherry, peach and strawberry fruit in abundance. Not the most complex wine you'll come across.

[134]
Quite a serious, savoury nose, showing black cherry and garrigue herbs. Full-bodied, with real depth and power. Acidity and alcohol are well balanced and it has a slightly chalky texture. An authentic Tavel, made in a traditional rather than natural style.

[135]
A Cinsault-Grenache-Syrah blend, expect peachy orange citrus aromas with a bloom of discreet Mediterranean herbs. Beginning to show pleasing signs of evolution, the headline is still refreshment thanks to an orange-like zestiness with strawberry zip leading to a final flurry of peach stone tang. With bold intensity, this gem is just starting to develop a savoury edge as the lengthy finish begins to subside.

[136]
Between a red and rosé in colour, showing red cherry, black cherry and raspberry notes. Medium-bodied, full of juice and energy. Not hugely complex, but so full of life and vibrancy. A crisp, floral finish with a touch of cassis.

[137]
A pale golden salmon, this wine initially presents a delicate fruit profile but opens up to reveal some opulent dark fruit and some soft peachy concentration and weight. An exciting, vibrant saline acidity, long dark minerality and some textural pithy freshness on the finish raises this wine from mere fruitiness to something with dynamic complexity.

[138]
A good deal of weight on the palate of stoned fruits with a bite of red cherry and spice. There's a lovely equilibrium between ripe fruits, natural sweetness, zestiness and concentration; flowing through onto a lightly mineral, leafy fresh finish.

[139]
Bashful colour but exuberant aromatics of spring flowers and the orange grove. Good acidity and structure. Enough weight for a good meal wine

[140]
Creamy cherry and jasmine perfume, an intriguing combination before a wild intrusion of fresh crunchy pepper kicks in, followed by a fresh finish.

[141]
A good sense of weight and depth to the fruit here with good acidity and balance, though a touch on the sweet side, probably through alcohol. It's very full-bodied, and a little overly high in alcohol, but certainly expressive with a long finish.

[142]
Vivid neon-pink colour and bright red fruit flavour. Smells of fresh berry fruits. Light-bodied despite its deep colour, bright, enlivening, mineral and perfectly balanced, with a long finish.

[143]
Bright cherry-pink colour and fresh strawberry aromas to its juicy blackberry fruit, opulent blackberry jam, and vibrantly fresh, crunchy acidity. Softly lush, embracing its full-bodied fruitiness.

[144]
Very ripe, spicy and smoky fruit offers every dimension of aroma. Strawberry fruit is dominant with a slight orange peel acidity in the mouth.

[145]
This is rosé at its most elegant and alluring, shaped by freshness, a high definition of raspberry fruit and mineral notes. Long finish; highly satisfying.

[146]
Deep pink. Some genuine intensity of aroma here: cherry, redcurrant and strawberry. Full-bodied, rounded and generous with plenty of weight on the mid-palate and a little fresh, sapid touch to the finish. Plenty of fruit into the length.

[147]
Quite a full-bodied rosé, a little reductive on the nose when tasted. Well made and full of red, strawberry-dominated fruits, with a little spice.

[148]
Full ripe strawberry, simple and crisp on the nose; fresh and vibrant fruit, an elegant palate with a good...

[149]
Deeply spicy nose with notes of red berries and stone fruit. Full-bodied and intense, detailed and complex on the palate, with complexity provided by a savoury character and driving acidity.

[150]
Deep pink hue with an alluring nose of stewing cranberries, fig and earthy mineral notes. A powerful, full-bodied rosé with generous fruit and savoury flavours, balanced freshness and a dry finish.

[151]
An elegant blend with a pretty pale shade in the glass, but with a lovely depth of flavour: watermelon, redcurrant and white flowers jostling for attention. Drinking really well now.

[152]
The colour has softened to a peachy orange tone. The wine is rich and complex, but still chiselled with freshness. Aromas of ripe peach, baking spices and a whiff of incense combine with crème fraiche and walnut richness and contrast with glistening rock-pool minerality. With precision and elegance in complete harmony with volume, vinosity and opulence, this is a wine of great articulation and length. It's at its peak but not about to start its descent.

[153]
The fruit quality is rather baked, and it lacks the desired freshness. Some spice and reasonable acidity.

[154]
From vineyards touching the seashore, the maritime breezes seem to have contributed an extra crispness and a touch of sea salt. Floral notes, white stone fruit and dried hay aromatics lead on to crunchy red berries, cherries and juicy white stone fruit. Wild hedgerow acidity, gentle textured chalkiness, saline minerality and more vibrant red fruit. Fabulous concentration and ripeness with a lasting finish that combines pretty fruit with austere minerality.

[155]
Delicate dried flower aromas with redcurrant fruit and a saline minerality on the palate. There's a mouthfilling weight but with enough acidity to keep everything fresh and pleasurable. The creamy red berry fruit and leafy green freshness lead to a lovely, sustained finish.

[156]
This pretty, pellucid rosé. Lovely purity and delicacy of mineral-sluiced red cherry, strawberry, with a refreshing hint of green.

[157]
Pale pink in colour, with red cherry and watermelon aromas. A light-bodied, fresh style that's very drinkable, with lively acidity. A fresh, straight and well-balanced rosé.

[158]
Showing quite a lot of development by way of the deeper orange hue in the glass. Lacks freshness and has a flat finish.

[159]
Aromas of smoked strawberry, slight lees and toast; palate nicely different, complex with a lively minerality, lees...

[160]
A fruit-forward nose with soft, green apple and pear notes coming through alongside lemon and ripe apricot. Tangy acidity giving freshness and energy, plus a focus on stone fruit and crunchy citrus flavours.

[161]
This is a very, very pale blend with the merest blush of a peachy tint. It's elegant, fragrant and alluring. The intersection of orange blossom and peach blossom, and it's super-fresh. This is deft, refreshing without resorting to sharpness. Impressively pure, delicate, subtle, engaging, alluring and bright with long tapering length.

[162]
Restrained on the nose, the wine shows typicity of this terroir with pronounced saline minerality and the textured character of the Grenache Gris. Crunchy redcurrants, unripe green apples, saline white peach and mineral length with pippy, pithy, crunchy acidity.

[163]
Pale pink. Floral aromas with hints of candied fruit. Creamy white fruit, hints of candied lemon peel and orange peel, white peach and melon. Fresh and crisp acidity. Lovely balance of smoothly integrated acidity that blends seamlessly with the slightly herbal citrus notes.

[164]
This wine has layers of garrigue and spice as well as a vegetal character showing itself with notes of tomato leaf and capsicum. A touch more acid would provide welcome backbone but all in all a curious, interesting wine.

[165]
A wild Provençal nose here combining garrigue, almost herbal aromas, with white flowers and sweet nectarine. On the palate there is succulent cherry juice, reminds me of a cherry drop sweet, with elements of apricot and peach. It's rounded and has structure with a soft creaminess. It is mouthwatering with a bright and long-lasting crystal clean finish.

[166]
A deep pink hue in glass. Pretty, delicate aromas of creamy rose petals, red cherry and plum. A round and textural finish that goes on and on. It's got weight and flavour.

[167]
An intense wild raspberry fruit character with a hint of rich, creamy nuttiness and long, fresh, saline acidity. A rosé which has proven to age well.

[168]
Rose petal aromas and vibrant red berry fruits on its creamy, silky, textured palate. Grapefruit freshness gives charm, and complexity to its lively ending.

[169]
Bright and exuberant on the nose, with blueberry and raspberry notes. Tangy acidity on a powerful, expressive and well-balanced palate. A touch of bitter herbs brings interest to the finish.

[170]
Pale salmon-hued rosé with seductive strawberries-and-cream juiciness plus bright citrus notes and a dusting of Mediterranean herbs.

[171]
A youthful, fruit-forward wine with almost red jam richness on the nose. On the palate the red fruit is fresh and crunchy with green leafy-fresh acidity, but with more powerful, strong phenolic extraction. The wine is quite restrained at first, slowly opening up with time to reveal quite a powerful structure and more ripe fruit. It seems a shame to drink while so young and before its potential is reached with a few years of age.

[172]
Pale salmon-copper pink. Aromas of dried apricots hint at the developing richness. On the palate there is some serious weighty concentration, juicy blood orange and ripe apricot fruit, held in restraint by a dark-fruit structure and long fresh bitter-orange acidity.

[173]
Delicately pale salmon pink. Restrained aromas of bruised peach, garrigue and barely ripe apricots. Concentration, sour lemon acidity and creamy, ripe, sweet black fruit. Fine-grained minerality leading to linear austerity and a mouthwatering finish.

[174]
Delicate orange-pink in colour. Quite firm, dry fruit on the palate, showing good structure and a satisfying balance of fruit, acidity and structure. Elegantly understated.

[175]
Floral aromas of violets and roses, bright pops of redcurrant and wafts of honey. Silken and creamy in the mouth, serious body and structure.

[176]
Floral nose with an orangey citrus palate, and mineral complex. It's light and fresh, with a modest acid finish.

[177]
A very pretty pale pink. The nose is redolent of strawberry and raspberry and the palate accords with that. Good acidic freshness. This is a very clean, rewarding wine.

[178]
The red wines from 2017 are full-bodied and expressive, and the rosato has a similar character in its generous aromas of orange blossom, red cherries, orange zest, green almonds and white pepper. The mouthfeel is round and expressive, balanced by a salty freshness. The finish is rich and long.

[179]
Subtle aromas but palate shows superbly intense redcurrant - complex, layered, yet fine. Outstanding for freshness...

[180]
Pale shell pink with gold hints. Oak dominant on the nose, opening out on the palate with an initial explosion of ripe strawberries, cherries, juicy peaches, a touch of oranges and discreet floral Tibouren notes. Complex layers develop with toasted nuts, buttered quince, creamy salty caramel oak and firm weighty structure. Long, fresh, saline acidity peeks out from behind the rich fruit. The finish is creamy, saline, gently floral, and just gets better and better.

[181]
Restrained stone fruit and orchard blossom aromas. On the palate, soft, floral and tart white peach, saline juiciness, pithy and long, fresh acidity, with white citrus and perfumed Sorrento lemon freshness and a fine, mineral structure. Restrained, delicate and elegant with a charming prettiness.

[182]
Dark pink with intense cherry fruit and floral aromas, the wine has weighty strawberry jam and kirsch fruit with herbal notes on the finish. Elegant structure and ageing well, although like many rosés made using this method, the acidity lacks the vibrancy of more modern methods.

[183]
A little paler in colour than usual, this has a spicy note to the blood orange aromas and a slightly musky scent. Full-bodied, powerful, there's a touch of grip on the tongue that adds texture and interest, and a long finish.

[184]
This Chiaretto has fresh red fruit scents with a touch of salinity on both nose and palate. Juicy in the mouth, zesty lemon, peach and red fruits are followed by a fresh grapefruit finish. Minerally, stony, and bright.

[185]
This value for money rosé is proudly pink with forward red fruit aromas. Crisp, crunchy red berry fruit, strawberry ice freshness, sweet red fruit compote, ripe plums, rhubarb, cloves and vanilla give an abundantly fruity wine. Long, vibrant acidity, with citrus zestiness and a saline finish. A really joyous rosé for fresh easy drinking.

[186]
Very pale, the merest hint of pink. It's spicy, showing orange and citrus peel flavours with a light and creamy texture. A blanc de noir style of wine.

[187]
Perfumed with jasmine aromas, the palate is slightly more straight lined with peach-skin fruit and a sensible, salty mineral finish.

[188]
Fresh and clean on the nose, this is a lovely example from the region. It's light and fresh, despite it's slightly richer pink colour, with juicy and mouthwatering lemon and strawberry flavours offset by a cooling sensation in the mouth. Unusual but interesting and moreish.

[189]
Fruity candy floss aromas with a fine, silky lemon citrus acidity and a mineral elegance.

[190]
Combining cranberry, strawberry, raspberry and creamy peach, this feels balanced and fresh, with a touch of roses and a herbal tinge.

[191]
A slightly reductive, confected character which smooths into classic Peach Melba perfume and a delicate honeyed straw flavour. Full of grace and zest there's an attractive sweetness to the ripe fruit. There is a seductive weight and balance and it is lingeringly mineral on the finish.

[192]
Golden salmon pink. Beautiful honeyed beeswax aromas, with an amazing range of intense florals – lilac, lilies, lavender – plus white fruit. Expected sweetness on the palate, but the honeyed acacia notes lead into redcurrants, sour red berries, wild strawberries and a saline finish with layers of rich complexity. Mouthwatering acidity with a long finish. Very beautiful, very pretty.

[193]
Pale pink. Ripe peach with a hint of minerality aromas. On the palate, juicy peaches, with an open and inviting ripeness, developing dark fruit and floral notes. Full-bodied structured weight with enticing depth, chalky texture and fresh acidity. Not a delicate rosé but satisfyingly mouth-filling.

[194]
Pale copper pink. Perfumed floral, ripe fruit and soft, buttery, barley sugar richness aromas. Continues on the palate with soft mellowed honey, beeswax, dried apricots and the fresh astringency of wild red berries. Slightly pithy green apple acidity and stony minerality contrasting with the mellowed honed fruit and delicate, perfumed white florals. Intriguing, honeyed, long saline mineral finish and rather nice in a funky way. Juicy dried apricots, intense red berries.

[195]
There's good acidity and depth of fruit on the palate. Nice purity with red berry fruit flavours and a touch of leafiness.

[196]
Complex peach blossom, red berry and saffron spice engulfed in a ripe, creamy palate with a subtle mineral finish.

[197]
Relatively pale with rose florality on the nose, and a touch of bitter orange on the palate. Good sense of vibrancy and purity of redcurrant fruit. Precise, focussed, not excessive, with good juice and balance. Fresh, with sweetly-ripe red fruit flavour. Medium length of finish; a very drinkable Tavel.

[198]
Light and fresh aromas of delicate red currants, pickled cherries and hints of salinity. Precise, distinctive and light.

[199]
Less restrained, with aromas of perfumed pêche de vigne and honey, continuing on the palate with unctuous peach, honeysuckle, white waxy flowers, vanilla, cream, beeswax, gentle candied lemon, fraise de bois. Lacy and charming balanced by fresh saline acidity and citrus.

[200]
Abundant flavours of apples, figs and plums with a creamy texture and gentle spice hints.

