WHITE — Cluster 5: Precise, mineral-citrus whites with electric acidity
577 wines total | 200 sampled
============================================================

[1]
Notes of ripe peach and lemon jelly to the fore, backed by a concentrated power that ensures assertiveness and length.

[2]
Weighty and textural with a creamy mouthfeel and beautiful aromatics. Notes of pomme fruit, key lime, and crushed slate minerality.

[3]
This offers grapey aromas twinned with peaches and orange rind. In the mouth it's full of flavour and takes on a bitter almond, walnut, green olive and honey character.

[4]
This Mosel-style wine is lively on the palate. Stone fruit, dried pineapple, and citrus dance with salinity and crispy acidity. Clean, clear, light, and well-balanced.

[5]
Oxidised and well beyond the ordinary. Aromas of peach skin, the subtle funkiness of Belgian Gueze, cheese rind and fresh mint. Briny palate, with flavours of Braeburn apple, spicy fermented notes and a textured finish.

[6]
Aromatic and expressive, it offers notes of lime citrus, grapefruit zest and honeysuckle. Ripe orchard fruit is laced with saline-acid tension, leading to a lengthy finish marked by wet-stone minerality.

[7]
Matured exotic fruits, such as papaya and mango. Palate is rich and fat with a firm structure and a medium-long finish.

[8]
Glorious candied fruits and wild herbs accent the simplicity and timelessness of Kabinett, a gorgeous middle ground for Riesling. On the palate, the complexity is dialled in with ripe peach flesh, apricots in honey and stunningly sweet tropical fruits. An epic and timeless bottle.

[9]
Pronounced, intense nose; a rollercoaster of concentrated fruit layered with beautifully integrated acidity. Lovely, refined texture and great tension throughout, leading to a long, precise and magnificent finish.

[10]
Floral and citrus nose, good intensity. A fat, fresh and pure palate with a long, firm finish. Understated nose, with orchard fruits: quince and apple. The palate is more citrus, with a delicate lees note and a long, elevated, mineral finish. A wine that defines tension. Great depth of ripe freshness, mineral tones. Already forward and open.

[11]
In its youth, it is the spicier aromas that take the lead: hints of woodruff and herbal infusion. Only later do fruity nuances of citrus, lemongrass, and lime emerge. Everything feels highly concentrated, exerting great intensity on the palate. The length is simply impressive.

[12]
Toasted bread, malted loaf and dried flower aromas; hints of acacia honey and dried nut. Rich, rounded and mineral. Fresh acidity gives lift, finishing with a crusty, savoury appeal.

[13]
Although notionally dry, there seems to be a trace of residual sugar, which broadens out the mid-palate and provides balance for the vivid acidity. Classic Eden Valley Riesling, with pronounced notes of citrus fruits (lemon, lime) tinged with a suggestion of honeysuckle and lemongrass.

[14]
Exotic notes of pithy citrus, quince, a lick of oyster shell, melon and nectarine, along with slatey minerality. Lush fruit profile with an extraordinary, supple backbone of acidity that both elongates and enhances the palate.

[15]
Steely, crisp and vibrant, packed with tangy lime, jasmine blossom and nectarine sweetness on the finish.

[16]
A mineral spine marks this very old vine Dry Riesling from the Saar producer Zilliken. Taut and crisp, with crushed-stone and sea-salt minerality soaring from the glass, followed by lemon zest and dried white florals. There is a viscosity to the palate, spices and dried herbs frame intense citrus richness, combining with a mineral precision that will only gain focus with a few years in bottle.

[17]
Luscious aromatic profile with lemon, candied ginger, pear juice and floral hints of orange blossom and jasmine. A firm, robust acid backbone holds it all together.

[18]
Toasty lemon, petrol and mineral tones with bright lime peel; zesty, driving acidity and a smooth, long finish.

[19]
Aromatic and fresh with beautiful purity and elegance. Delicate, dainty and linear with gentle typicity driven by acidity.

[20]
The Mezes Maly version presents a more restraint and mineral nose, with lime and green apple fruits and floral notes. Fresh and pure on the palate, the piercing acidity is the backbone, while the citrus and green apple flavours provide the flesh, long and elegant.

[21]
Ripe pomelo and bergamot leap from the glass, framed by grapefruit and stone. Fresh, energetic. Generous fruit core, incisive acidity. Mineral line extends through a long, zesty finish.

[22]
Reticent on the nose and palate but promising great complexity and intrigue to come. There are whispers of lanolin, meadow flowers and freshly squeezed lemon juice, coursed through by piercing acidity.

[23]
Lemon zest, yellow apple and strudel flavours are coated by a delicious and fine layer of honey.

[24]
This well rounded white shows flavours of red apple and cumin with a generous texture and finely balanced finish.

[25]
Lemon, grapefruit and pomelo kissed by smoke, liquorice root and pine resin. Pure, with tension. Vibrant acidity and savoury minerality. Finishes long with kumquat-lime brightness.

[26]
Ripe pear and tropical notes of papaya balance with a hint of petrol. The palate is ripe and fleshy. Smoky grilled pineapple, rich lemon curd and crushed stone and salty minerality, there's a petrol throughline that shows the captivating nature of aged Riesling.

[27]
The variety's signature acidity is an electric current running through stone fruit unctuousness; peach, melon and apricot, all scrubbed up in lime vivacity. Gloriously textured.

[28]
A very pretty dry Riesling. Aromatics of dandelion, cut grass and cardamom lead into peach skin and grapefruit pith. The palate is lean, yet balanced with plenty of savoury depth. Notes of smoky flint, almond skin and beeswax all combine in a palate of rich brightness. The finish emphasizes wet stone, bee pollen and lanolin.

[29]
Sweet peach ring candy aromas, candied orange peel and unctuous wafts of clover honey. On the palate, it's a combination of gorgeously etched minerality and a lifted brilliance that carries ripe stone fruits and stunning lemon-curd intensity.

[30]
Delicate aromas of nutmeg and petrol. Restrained fruit with supple flavours and aromas of Meyer lemon, yellow plums and savoury herbs. Concentrated and complex with a focus on texture.

[31]
Pinpoint precision of stony minerality and smoky flint on the aromatics. The palate is sea salt, savoury lemon verbena, dried herbs, and such an impressive length with a balance that is ethereal in complexity. Tart lemon pulp delivers a concentrated fruit note on the finish.

[32]
This Feinherb bottling offers just a dab of residual sugar, elevating the razor-sharp minerality of rich crushed stone with a note of sweet lemon peel on the nose. It is tart and racy on the palate, with just a kiss of sweet depth. Salted lemon peel and lime pith soar above the cool stone minerality that forms the backbone of this wine. There's a delightful texture and thirst-slaking crispness all at once.

[33]
Notes of ripe peach, grapefruit, apricot, and lemon are balanced by lingering acidity and gentle tannins. This is a vibrant wine to enjoy.

[34]
Lime cordial, wet wool, and jasmine on the nose. Slightly off dry palate with vibrant aromas of ripe lemon, fresh mango, and baked pineapple with a touch of pepper.

[35]
Ripe exotic fruit, warm spice and toasted nut aromas. Full and powerful yet finely cut, with brisk acidity and Hengst minerality building tension, finishing long, savoury and warm.

[36]
A delicately balanced Riesling offering sweet peach and ripe pineapple aromatics lifted by a sea breeze. The palate is gloriously dialled in as sweet, ripe pineapple dances effortlessly with a saline minerality and crushed wet stone.

[37]
Fresh and aromatic, and completely dry, it has fruit salad aromas that leap from the glass, tropical, with some talcum powder perfume. Fruit forward, racy and with good length.

[38]
Soaring stone fruits, chipped flint minerality and smoky grilled pineapple rings. The palate offers juicy, sweet papaya and guava fruits; it's at once unctuous and bright. Juicy and lifted, a study in balance.

[39]
This dry Riesling is beautifully aromatic with notes of pear, apricot and flint. The palate is multifaceted, showing bright fruit intensity, exhilarating acidity and a precise finish.

[40]
Aromas of cut ripe peaches, honeyed apricot and pastry cream. The palate is rich, ripe peach and tropical fruits go to dazzling depths. All piqued by beautifully balanced acidity and a touch of mineral freshness.

[41]
The bracing acidity balances the off-dry character. Notes of orange blossom, lime zest, green apple, and tropical fruits.

[42]
Typical Riesling notes of lime zest and kumquat on the palate. Unmistakably Riesling yet not at all petrol-y on the nose or palate. Great balance of sweetness, freshness, fine texture.

[43]
A glorious Riesling with exquisite aromas of spiced pear and petrol mixed with elderflower and hints of smoky lime. The palate is wonderfully textured with a beautiful interplay between the acid and sugars. Peach and papaya flavours mingle with grilled pineapple, and a brilliant streak of minerality cuts through this wine to its finish.

[44]
This bone dry, brightly flavoured Clare Riesling grabs you by the lapels and gives you a vigorous shake. It's a classic lime-and-green-apple combo with some petrol hints from age. Flirts with austerity.

[45]
Honey, peach and apricot perfume. A deep, sweet richness and a powerful, stone fruit core, plus candied citrus and spice. Finishing glossy and persistent.

[46]
A mineral, refreshing Riesling that features flint and burnt match on the nose with honey, ripe apricot and peach as a backdrop. A sharp attack of crunchy green apples, lemon and ripe nectarine, followed by a clean finish.

[47]
Firm nose of jasmine, green apple, and wet slate. Dry palate with an oily texture, notes of fresh white stone fruits, lime juice and touch of minerality.

[48]
This Riesling has plenty of varietal typicity with its fresh petrolly aromatics. The palate combines lovely florality and freshness, with crisp citrus acidity and a juicy mouthwatering finish.

[49]
Peach, apricot and tangerine aromas alongside exotic fruit; juicy, generous, bright. Vibrant acidity shapes a ripe, smooth palate, finishing clean and appetising.

[50]
It's an elegant wine from start to finish, with expressive and forward aromas of citrus and nectarine, lovely minerality and lively acidity.

[51]
Pure and mineral, this wine has white blossom, citrus and green apple notes on the nose. It's a refreshing Riesling that features a dry palate with notes of crunchy green apple, as well as salivating lime-peel bitterness and white-pepper spice.

[52]
Opulently fruited. Fleshy ripe peaches, honeyed apricot and deep honeysuckle florals mark this richly aromatic Riesling. The palate offers sweet peaches and pears, balanced brilliantly with a thirst-slaking minerality and soaring acidity.

[53]
This off-dry modern rendition of a Rheingau classic is complete on the nose with candied lemons, ripe yellow peach flesh, and a tense salty spice component. The palate is balanced nicely, with tart citrus cream, a kiss of sweet pineapple, and a salty kiss at the finish.

[54]
Opens with lovely acacia honey and acacia-wood tones, nuanced by white florals, dried ginger and a faint flicker of that flinty petrol note. The light-to medium-bodied palate is rife with the fresh, juicy squeeze of lemon, grapefruit and tangerine, framed by the grippy texture of biting into citrus pith and underscored by plenty of zesty acidity. It finishes on a wet-stone mineral snap that keeps the wine vivid and refreshing.

[55]
A classic Clare Valley Riesling, showcasing fresh lime juice, candied grapefruit peel and the faintest hint of the petrolly character that will come with age. Tangy and fresh, with a laser-like seam of acidity that carries through the long finish – and refreshingly low alcohol to boot.

[56]
This wine glistens with classic Mosel minerality, and the blue slate soils from the Wehlener Sonnenuhr shine through. Smoky crushed flint, smoky grilled lemon and notes of candlewax alight the glass in the aromatics. The palate is edgy and lean, fresh-shaved ginger root and linear tones of citrus rind, smoky gunflint, and stone race along and finish upright and reductive.

[57]
Saline and mineral with floral and appley scents, it's dry yet juicy in the mouth, showing white flower and juicy pear followed by a peachy finish.

[58]
Crushed rock with Amalfi lemon and bergamot aromas over notes of white peach, plum and dried herb. Concentrated and savoury. Brisk acidity and wet-pebble minerality. Long finish. Suitable for cellaring.

[59]
This is zippy and zesty, with a pretty jasmine perfume and persistent limey juiciness. A touch of residual sugar (3.2g/L) is easily balanced by the refreshing acidity.

[60]
Aged, savoury and delicious. Aromas are savoury and saline. Lanolin, dandelion, seafoam, and beeswax with hints of fresh herbs and dried lemon peel. The palate is brilliant, savoury and bright and complex. Energetic flavours of wet slate, savoury bee pollen, white tea and lanolin notes. The finish offers crushed stone vibrancy.

[61]
A youthful nose of jasmine blossom, white peach, green apple and flinty freshness. Half-dry with crisp acidity on the palate, simple green apple and lime zest with a pinch of white pepper, which follow to the melony finish.

[62]
Starts with lifted notes of lemons, limes, and spring blossoms. Elegant with an alluring mineral texture and persuasive tension, the zesty acidity is balanced by just enough sweetness. It has a very long finish and a high concentration of flavours; think of a cross between lemon curd and key lime pie.

[63]
It combines richness with lift and energy. Precise and taut, lush tropical grilled pineapple and smoky chipped flint. Lingering, juicy Meyer lemon lingers for a lengthy, driven finish.

[64]
There is slight petrol on the nose moving into green fruit plus stone fruit notes. The palate showcases bracing high acid, confirms the aroma notes, plus jasmine flowers – an all-purpose, varietally correct Riesling.

[65]
Beautiful honeyed aromatics of nutmeg, baked pear and baking spice. Beautifully honeyed with candied ginger, apple turnover and Jamaican allspice. Deliciously rich, opulent, and with a lovely mouth-filling depth.

[66]
Radiant aromatics, white peach flesh and smoky tone of grilled pineapple with a finely etched mineral frame. The palate is juicy with ripe stone fruits, rich tropical flavours and dazzling acidity that brilliantly lifts the sweet late-harvested fruit.

[67]
An off-dry Riesling with gorgeous aromatics of honeyed ginger, petrol and poached pear. The palate is loaded with rich, unctuous golden raisins, honey, cardamom and ginger flavours. This wine gives so much with a long, lingering finish.

[68]
The wine is quietly expressive, with plenty of zest and minerality. Aromas of crisp pear, tart pineapple skin, and fresh rainfall roll effortlessly out of the glass. The palate shows moderate acidity for Riesling standards, with a gentle viscosity and a lovely, persistent weight, yet it finishes fresh and salty.

[69]
Attractive pale gold in the glass. Sweet, fleshy peach perfume. Citrus zestiness and an almost smoky hint to it. Lingering stone fruit juiciness.

[70]
Crisp aromas of cut ripe pears, crushed slate and honeyed stone fruits. The palate is juicy and amply fruited with tropical notes of guava, pineapple and a tingly fresh acidity.

[71]
Tantalising notes of petrol, toast, smoky mezcal with lifted lime peel and honeysuckle. Apricot and yellow plum richness meets crystalline acidity, gently balanced by a touch of residual sugar, leading to a long, vibrant finish.

[72]
A bone-dry Riesling shows brilliance. Lifted aromas of green mangoes, crushed wet slate and petrichor reveal a wine with mineral depth. The palate offers brilliant tart citrus, orange peel, and lemon pulp mingles with a touch of white pepper and a very pretty ocean seaspray finish.

[73]
You'll find the racy acidity and weight of peach and apple fruit, a touch of minerality, and great length too.

[74]
Spiced orange peels, rich cardamom honey and a note of exotic Andalusian marmalade orange waft from the glass. Unctuous and rich yet precise and focused. Layered flavours of honey, apricot flesh, lemon curd and brilliant stony minerality with a perfectly balanced finish. Classic Auslese richness with clarity. Amazing complexity that will only further develop with years in the bottle.

[75]
A genteel dry Austrian Riesling with discreetly penetrating lime and lemon acidity and a juicy hit of mid-palate peachiness, leading to a sherbet dip-dab of a finish.

[76]
Orange zest, peach and orange peel over smoke and gentle petrol. Aniseed, fennel and pollen add lift; rich and round, with lively acidity and mineral drive to the finish.

[77]
Aromatics of sweet yellow peaches, honeyed ginger and an exotic cardamom driven spice. The palate is balanced brilliantly between the rounded honeyed apricot and a wistful lift of spiced pear at the finish.

[78]
A characteristically exotic nose of guava, ripe mango and peach, with a hint of grass. The tropical mango fruit follows to the palate, with bitter grapefruit rind, nectarine and citrus.

[79]
This wine has a buoyant minerality; aromas of cardamom spice are framed by flinty smoke and stony-driven minerality. The lively character with lime pith and soaring tart citrus indicate that this is a decidedly young Riesling that will undoubtedly mellow in the bottle. There's a brilliant mineral streak which will evolve alongside the rest of the palate.

[80]
Dry and quite full-bodied, this is forward and open, with juicy citrus and lime flower character. Despite its approachability, you could also lay this down and enjoy in five years time.

[81]
Lively on the nose and palate here with juicy lemon and crisp green apple, peach flesh and grapefruit rind flavours. There's lift at the end and good length keeping it refreshing all the way through.

[82]
A fresh and cheerful Rheingau Riesling featuring white blossom, Nashi pear and freshly sliced green apple on the nose; ripe citrus acidity and rounded peachy tone on the palate, followed by juicy melon on the finish.

[83]
Acacia, honeysuckle and peach, alongside apricot, herbs, subtle smoke and petrol. Dry and broad-shouldered yet fresh and lively. Finishes long and moreish.

[84]
This Riesling has a wonderful orange blossom character and the aroma of clover honey, ginger, and spice. The palate shows a beautiful texture. Tart lemon pith and crushed stone mingle with coriander and cardamom.

[85]
Lightly smoky lime and apricot on a reserved nose. Rich and suave, it has opened up and shows excellent freshness and balance, with a long, almondy finish.

[86]
Classic Riesling aromatics, of cardamom, ginger and spiced pears. Fresh and crisp on the palate, with savoury tones of fresh herbs and white pepper, crushed stone minerality, and a throughline of juicy lemon pulp, lime zest, and bright, freshly sliced ginger.

[87]
The pickled vineyard peach shows sweet ripeness, lemongrass and elderflower emerge layer by layer, accompanied by a hint of iodine from the red soil. Deep, dense, compact, but not trapped within itself, it is already opening up to the encounter.

[88]
Petrol, inviting white floral aspects with peach and lemon scents. Gunsmoke and flint elements too. Sharp and so delicious straight away, crunchy white and yellow stone fruit with piercing and racy acidity that gives a sherbet tang to the palate although this is technically off-dry. Clean and crystalline, great purity and sense of class, long intense, concentrated yet amazingly light on its feet. Round and generous but perfectly balanced and controlled. Refined and finessed but offering so much flavour with mouthwatering acidity.

[89]
Beautiful and delicate on the nose, ripe peach fuzz, cut Fuji apple flesh and sweet citrus. The palate is lively, fresh and brisk at the same time, it pops with ripe Meyer lemon pulp, fresh apples and brilliant tingly minerality.

[90]
Very compact, not yet fully accessible, but the candied lemon and slightly exotic fruit promise much for the future. The wine is delicate in stature, a Riesling that goes deep, not wide. An elegant wine.

[91]
This wine delights with brilliant citrus and crisp acidity. Its aroma centres on lime pith and crushed stone with a hint of orange blossom. The palate is lean and bright, with lemon pith, tart orange zest and an intense green mango fruit finish.

[92]
Flinty on the nose which opens up to peach and white pepper-spiced apricot. Crisp green apple and lemon with a fine layer of minerals. The high acidity was balanced by a touch of honey on the finish.

[93]
Fragrant and elegant, showing pure mineral and saline intensity. Refined and poised, with a persistent, beautifully focused finish.

[94]
Aromas of honeysuckle and orange blossom give way to notes of ripe papaya. The palate shows rich ripeness, with grilled peaches, honeyed apricots, and notes of smoky grilled pineapple.

[95]
Rich and unctuous, aromas of acacia honey with candied orange peels and sweet marshmallows. The palate is rich, viscous and luxuriating. The brilliance of the acidity lifts the intense grilled pineapple, rich, honeyed pears, and a kiss of sweet lemon creme carried to the finish on the wings of a shining minerality.

[96]
In this warmer vintage, Sankt Nikolaus is characterised by a firm acidity embedded in sweet peach fruit and quince jelly, complemented by the spiciness of fresh herbs and ginger. A high concentration and an impressive length.

[97]
A scintillating take on Riesling with a silvery slash of acidity and a hit of lime (tangy juice and fragrant skin) that is just developing a hint of caraway seed complexity.

[98]
Pale straw colour. Citrus fruits, fresh herbs, hints of stone fruits and fresh dough. Off-dry with attractive, refreshing acidity, a pleasant texture and harmonious finish.

[99]
Peach, gooseberry, lime and mango scents and flavours are tied together with a sprinkle of white pepper, with a zesty citrus finish.

[100]
This Riesling has limey aromas with a hint of floral and rubber notes. Tight, dry lime and apple palate, with a pithy character and a touch of exotic fruits. Fresh finish.

[101]
Gorgeously spiced with cardamom, sweet peach flesh, and brilliant minerality. The palate is brilliantly balanced, with beeswax and succulent tart Riesling.

[102]
This shows all the class and elegance of Alsatian Riesling. Concentrated lime cordial, beeswax, kerosene, acacia, jasmine, and nectarine sweetness. It feels soft and wide in the mouth, filling every inch, and then finishing elegantly with a nipped-in, acid-driven finish with a flourish of toast and slate.

[103]
Discreet fruit, mineral lift and crunchy texture. Generous depth to the juicy citrus and stone fruit, brisk acidity and a youthful finish.

[104]
This high-altitude Riesling offers aromas of honey, lemon verbena, sweet elderflower, and orange oil. Its concentrated Meyer lemon pulp and honeyed ginger flavour offer impressive intensity and richness. The finish has a note of almond skin and a persistent minerality.

[105]
Dry with amplified lemon and lime aromas, plus mineral and blossom. The palate is sharp with mouthwatering acidity and sweet-saline flavours of pear and star fruit, finishing mineral.

[106]
There is a precise balance of acid and sugar in this off-dry Riesling. The character of the fruit is slightly ripe, with the acid framing it all nicely. A perfumed, fruit-forward nose is confirmed on the palate.

[107]
Ripe citrus aromas and a fresh palate with clean acidity, medium complexity and a drier finish than many.

[108]
Medium intensity, young bouquet. Palate shows depth and pure structure with ripe acidity. Long and clean finish. Will keep. Fresh and direct, with good structure and body, showing nice development and a good finish with lingering acidity. Generous freshness, fantastic young vibe with tension and poise. Tertiary aromas are beginning to develop, adding to the complexity. No hurry to drink.

[109]
White flower, stone fruit and citrus, crushed stone and gentle petrol aromas. Pure, generous, crisp with saline mineral drive and ripe intensity. Charming with an herbal finish.

[110]
A slight spice character on the nose (star anise and cardamom) gives way to citrus and stone fruit notes on the palate. Balanced, quality wine with a long finish.

[111]
Old Vine Riesling showing the complexity of these old vines. Honeyed ginger aromas are flanked by ripe peach flesh and grilled orange peel. The palate shows depth and ripe fruit. Grilled lemon and smoked sea salt hint at this wine's smoky mineral core. Tangy citrus and ripe peach meet cardamom and seaspray, a delicious young Riesling that will show even more in 8 to 10 years.

[112]
Lemon and grapefruit, dry and bright, refreshing acidity and light fruitiness. Gently structured, finishing crisp.

[113]
Aromas of petrol, lychee and wild jasmine flowers with white pepper and dried thyme. Thick and unctuous, but so alive and really piercing. Utterly filling in every way, confident and shining, it has a wonderful viscosity to it, complex and captivating - honeyed with some bitter caramel and toasted edges but lovely bright, citrus acidity too. Sweet lemon and lime with some sugary peach and a salty, mineral touch to the finish that elongates the expression.

[114]
Peach, apricot blossom and exotic florals. Good weight and freshness; a clean, dry line, discreet flavours and an easy, crowd-pleasing finish.

[115]
A delightful Riesling with undeniable ripeness, the freshness and buoyancy really deliver. Aromatics of sweet florals and spice alongside clover honey and sweet lemon drop candies. The palate is full, and slightly viscous, with sweet lemon cream, ripe nectarines and a fresh, saline streaked briskness delivering the finish.

[116]
For a 2016 Riesling, this still has youthful, limey citrus aromas with some florality and a hint of peach. Juicy with an underlying minerality, there is also delicacy here and mouthwatering acidity.

[117]
Juicy fruits alight the glass. Aromas of sweet cut melons and sweet pears in syrup mingle with exotic spice and smoky flint. The palate pops with juicy tropical fruits, mangoes and guava.

[118]
Nicely dry on the structured palate but packed with candied lemon peel, tangy grapefruit and green mangoes. Mouthwatering acidity cleanses through the long finish. Always a reliable buy – delicious young and fresh, but will mature gracefully in the cellar too.

[119]
A mountain Riesling. The aroma evokes hints of citrus and hawthorn, while the sapid and tense sip invites a further taste.

[120]
This blend has a bouquet of poached pear, ripe lemon rind, lime Starburst and starfruit. Straw notes on the nose add a subtle savoury edge. Flavours of lemon sherbet and grilled pink grapefruit come through on the palate to produce a very solid wine.

[121]
The aromas range from juicy Meyer lemon to notes of tropical papaya and pineapple. The palate is well textured, with such fruit-forward clarity. Meyer lemon, green mangoes and guava, juicy and crisp with a radiant saline finish.

[122]
Sweet-scented aromas of honey, marzipan, pastry and cookie dough greet the nose, almost tricking you into expecting sweetness. Yet the palate reveals a bone-dry Riesling, with confit lemon and orange peel stretched tightly around a mineral spine. The texture still feels youthful and taut, suggesting plenty of life ahead, but there's already enough bottle complexity to make it compelling now. Long, textured and gastronomic.

[123]
There is beautifully ripe fruit – peach and nectarine with a hint of lemongrass – the acidity firm and dense, without a trace of bitterness. Everything fits together; everything flows into each other.

[124]
Restrained, savoury expression of Riesling. Electrifying acidity with ideal natural sweetness is complimented by minerality expressed by notes of wet stone. Restrained fruit aromas and flavours are mostly citrus, lemon and lime, with gentle notes of spring blossoms. It is a complex wine with good concentration and the ability to age.

[125]
Smoky and stony with a citrus grip. Crisp palate with strong acidity, medium complexity and a long finish.

[126]
Aromas of white pepper, white flowers and wet stones. Full palate with good and ripe acidity, good finish. Built to last, but already approachable. Elegant, fresh nose, with toasty, smoky touches. Vibrant palate with great freshness and a leesy character to complete the frame; nice citrus finish. Fresh rosemary, lemon and floral notes. Showing well now but will age well, too.

[127]
Cut green apple aromatics, this cool-climate Riesling is cooler than the other side of the pillow, with ample mineral tones and a note of cardamom spice. Lean and crisp on the palate, with mouthfuls of lime zest, cut pears, and sea salt delivering a crisp finish.

[128]
Classic Riesling aromatics of petrol, tropical fruit and petrichor. The wine offers ample ripeness, with tropical fruits, zesty lime, fleshy ripe peach, and some phenolic notes on the palate.

[129]
Notes of peach, citrus and grapefruit, accompanied by the tart freshness of lemon balm – all clear, cool and precise. The taut acidity further underscores the pure and open character.

[130]
The lively acidity and marked minerality balance the fleshy pineapple and peach fruit, keeping it fresh and ensuring that the sweetness doesn't overwhelm.

[131]
An understated beauty, the 2022 hints at green apple blossom, lemon verbena, dough and flint. Zesty and citrusy on the palate, this comes across as lean at first as uber racy, steely acidity takes the driver's seat. Yet, it packs some density and should flesh out with time.

[132]
This bone-dry Riesling is provocatively ripe, popping with brilliant acids. Yellow florals, sweet pineapple flesh and lemon wedge. The palate pops with juicy Meyer lemon, sea salt and ripping green mango freshness through the finish.

[133]
A wonderfully evocative Reserve Riesling. Beyond the alluring fruit aromas elements of umami and secondary character are starting to show in this wine.

[134]
Ultra-classic Alsace Riesling, with a steely, focused palate and a whiff of kerosene. The power and concentration of this wine is notable.

[135]
Spring blossom, dried flower and candied pink grapefruit zest. Hints of brown sugar and overripe apricot. Mineral depth and creamy breadth meet fresh acidity, finishing silky and inviting.

[136]
This is a pure Riesling, unmistakably Alsatian, with a smoky lining to the lemon, peach and pear fruit. The juicy, vibrant citrus glides through the palate aided by an unctuous oiliness. Hints of kerosene and beeswax play in the background.

[137]
Distinctive mineral traces provide a sturdy backbone to rich and generous lime and lemon flavours. Opens with a seductive bouquet of fresh green apple and jasmine, before fine chalky tannins define a curvy mid-palate that shows a long citrus core gripped with a trace of honeysuckle, with an irresistible smack of minerality at the conclusion.

[138]
Dry, racy Riesling. Notes of green and yellow apple, quince, and pear are found on the nose and palate, alongside slate minerality and a fuller mouthfeel.

[139]
Very smokey (with an earthy edge) on the nose, with nectarine, yellow peach and hints of honey and green apple slices. Good concentration of flavours, sharp green apple acidity are wrapped in sweet-spiced yellow peach, apricot and pineapple on the palate. Lemon zest and ginger linger on the finish.

[140]
Ripe melon, juicy peach and citrus aromas continue on the smooth-textured mid-palate, leading to ripe lychee and ginger on the finish. There's vibrant acidity throughout this well-managed, off-dry Riesling.

[141]
A fine Riesling that's full and round, with both exotic and stone fruit complemented by honeysuckle, candied lime and a spicy kick on the finish. Characteristic minerality and tension add freshness.

[142]
Grapefruit peel and citrus fruit edged by smoke and stone. Salty and elegant. Strong minerality gives drive and structure; a touch of nutty complexity. Long, promising finish.

[143]
Peach, orange zest and white-flower aromas; a youthful citrus spark. Dry and structured yet rounded. Lemony acidity and mineral lift meet supple fruit, finishing clean, ripe and pleasing.

[144]
Aromatic, bone-dry, crisp and mineral, with a lovely fruit profile of fresh zingy lime, plus some subtle rounder hints of passionfruit and peach.

[145]
Low-toned for a Riesling, with aromas of baked lemon and tropical fruit more prominent above light petrol notes, though there's a complexity here that's enlivened by a touch of white smoke mineral. On the palate it's nicely rounded too, revealing pleasantly peachy citrus fruit and tropical touches with a dash of mandarin on the finish. A highly drinkable, fruit-focused style.

[146]
Classic sweet stone fruits, cardamom spice, and a pulsating electric lime pith note animate the aromas. The palate offers such brilliant balance. Tart citrus and creamy sweet stone fruit flesh result in a honeyed apricot finish with a fine, acid-driven backbone.

[147]
Fleshy Rías Baixas Albariño, with mouth-filling nectarine, white peach, Asian pear and melon, supported by a firm acid backbone. A deep layer of juicy citrus and wet stone is offset by top notes of white flowers and chamomile. Characterful texture and weight on the mid palate.

[148]
Citrus fruit and hints of mint emerge precise and highly concentrated, yet remain unobtrusive and subtle. Then there is this animating lightness and coolness, as refreshing as a mountain stream. Above all, the Hermannshöhle impresses with its remarkable length.

[149]
The 60g/l residual sugar barely registers, so steely is the acidity, providing a backbone to the fleshy peach stone fruit and subtle kerosene evolution. Great harmony, elegance and depth, and with a long life ahead.

[150]
Crisp and savoury with hints of lees, cheese rind and marzipan. Bright citrus notes of lemon zest and lime blossom. High acidity.

[151]
It is always the wine in the range that appears most impenetrable in its youth, with flavours of vineyard peach (small, red-skinned fruit), peach kernel oil, lime grass, and white pepper, along with a saltiness more reminiscent of Chablis than Riesling. The acidity is strict yet smooth, providing a refined flow. The length seems endless.

[152]
This Ridgecrest estate dry Riesling is beguiling in its youth with the showy character of a Riesling with much more bottle age. The wine is not completely dry, giving it wonder aromatics of spiced pear, petrol, and spicy cardamom. The palate is rich, redolent and marked by baked apple, cinnamon and more of that delicious spiced pear.

[153]
An immediate sense of ripe, golden and red-cheeked pear fruit, almost Williams-like, fills the nose. There is the merest flicker of flinty reduction. The palate is smooth, beautifully fruit-driven, very fluid and far too easy to drink. Fine freshness brings it to an off-dry finish.

[154]
A deep golden hue introduces an equally intense nose of sun-kissed peaches and apricots dripping with ripeness. Tropical guava and honey wafers join in on the palate. Sumptuously textured, syrupy, sweet and dense with endless layers of concentration, until zesty, zippy acidity catches up.

[155]
Has a lovely aroma of lime peel, white flowers, and an edge of flinty mineral and lees. The texture is lively, with plenty of crisp acid tension but also enough substance to keep it from tasting tart.

[156]
Lime juice, lime peel, jasmine and wet stones leap out from the glass. Light body and light alcohol with an exhilarating acidity reminiscent of Riesling. Long energetic palate with a crisp dry finish.

[157]
Aromas of lime, grapefruit and apricot with kaffir lime leaf and orange blossom florality. A dry, mineral palate with vibrant acidity; notes of citrus, ginger, grape and apple, lifted by a hint of spritz.

[158]
This Central Otago expression offers classic varietal notes of apple blossom, fresh lime and lemon zest, with white peach and stone fruit on the palate. Acidity is high yet the mouthfeel is softened, bringing gentle balance rather than razor-sharp, do or die precision.

[159]
It has aromas of grasses, grapefruit pith, and candied lime zest. The palate offers juicy citrus, Meyer lemon pulp, and a note of ripe nectarine flesh.

[160]
A delicate waft of citrus blossom and lime flower gives way to a palate charged with classic Clare Valley lemon and lime zest-and-juice tang and clean lines.

[161]
Summery scents of hay, peach, orange zest and blossom. Its slightly weighty texture gives substance to breezy flavours of summer meadow, sweet stone fruits and cutting lime juice, accompanied by zesty acidity and barrel spices.

[162]
In an off-dry style, it has a wonderful nose, classic for a New World Riesling, more tropical than lime fruit but fresh with a low emphasis on the petrol tones, and light honey. On the palate it's big, juicy, and eminently drinkable, with low-ish acidity and an open and enveloping style. Not challenging, but it gives a lot and will easily make plenty of friends.

[163]
There is a touch of residual sugar, but the racy acidity means that it doesn't taste sweet at all. With fantastic ageing potential, this is overtly floral, and with a purity of lemon citrus and peach fruit. Elegant, poised and dangerously drinkable.

[164]
Lushly fruited Riesling. Beautifully aromatic with fruit and floral character backed by ample stony minerality and notes of petrol. Aromas of pear, peach, and Kaffir lime comingle. The palate is lush and alive. Fruit and stone mineral elements predominate a textured palate that shows age but depth. Beeswax, flint and ripe Bosc pears lead to a finish that lasts forever.

[165]
The beauty of this wine lies in the contrast between the fleshy, forward peach and lemon citrus fruit and the backbone that comes from racy acidity and a seam of minerality. Just delicous dry Riesling with great cellaring potential.

[166]
Fresh herbs, grilled grapefruit, and orange blossom on the nose. On the textural and round palate, stone fruits, almonds, and orange pith meet minerality and mouthwatering acidity. A pinch of residual sugar rounds out the balance.

[167]
Mouthwatering acid, but delivering more complexity than austerity. Rocks and fruit: wet stone, green apple and pear notes on the nose and palate. A slightly honeyed character with spice notes of saffron and ginger.

[168]
Petrol, stone fruits and acacia perfume on the nose. Off-dry on the palate with crisp green apple acidity, minty herbs plus a pinch of flint. Ripe citrus fruits and lovely acacia blossom on the finish. A quaffable delight.

[169]
A gorgeously delicate Kabinett. Sweet, honeyed florals, peach candy rings and whiffs of sweet pear flesh offer intoxicating aromas. The palate is honeyed yet buoyantly light, with sweet pineapples in syrup, delicate candied ginger and a gorgeous display of fresh minerality that lifts the entire finish.

[170]
Bone-dry with a perky grip of lime juice acidity, orange blossom lift and crisp flavours of lemon sherbet and wet river stones.

[171]
A juicy and mineral fresh Riesling. Aromas of crushed stone, with juicy papaya and soaring fresh green mangoes. The palate offers fresh cut pineapple, beeswax and savoury garden herbs.

[172]
Persimmon, ripe peach and vanilla aromas; honeyed apricot, herb smoke and pineapple. Lush, sweet and powerful with a juicy texture and warming spice. Generous, comforting finish.

[173]
As it comes to temperature in the glass, this lean and linear wine shows body. Slate, peaches, and white rose compliment an intriguing, distinct petrol nose. At the same time, the mouth tastes demi-sec with balanced acidity, lychee, passion fruit, and a sliver of green apple.

[174]
Citrus peel, apple skin and dried herbs, touched by hay smoke. Pure, broad. Gentle phenolic grip and vibrant freshness; green citrus energy and savoury depth suggest cellar promise.

[175]
Zesty aromas of fresh lime, lemon rind, grapefruit and tree sap lead to a fresh citrusy palate with hints of pine and dried herbs. Made from the native Moschofilero grape, this is a simple, easy-drinking, accessible white.

[176]
Brilliant wine aromas of lime and crushed flint show the zesty mineral core of this wine. The bone-dry palate gives smoky citrus and fleshy nectarines with a cardamom and ginger spice to the finish.

[177]
A racy, dazzling streak of sea salt and electricity, this finely etched wine offers up layers of bright, sun-kissed tangerine and yellow cherry flavours spiced with white peppercorns and ginger. It's remarkably open but anchored by a steely backbone of slate and stone. Balanced in sweetness and revitalising with each sip.

[178]
Inviting lemon meringue aromas with subtle effervescence. Supple, sweet palate balances bright acidity. Vibrant citrus, white peach and orchard fruit. Refined with a long, floral, refreshing finish.

[179]
A wonderful off-dry Riesling that shows elegance, depth and just the slightest touch of viscosity. The aromatics of cardamom, spiced pear and honeysuckle are tinged with wet stone aromas and just a kiss of petrol. The palate shows a real depth of spiced pear fruits, lychee, toasted almond cream and great acidity carry this wine to the finish.

[180]
A graceful off-dry style with aromas of stone fruit, lemons and petrol. Flavours are consistent with lovely notes of peaches, spring blossoms and savoury herbs. Well-integrated brisk acidity carries the wine and creates a juicy character. Outstanding concentration with minerality and a lingering finish.

[181]
Distinctive varietal kerosene nose, with creamy citrus and white blossom hints. The palate is bone dry, with bracing acidity – mineral and pure, with that petrol character, lemon sherbet and freshly sliced lemons, plus pretty notes of lime zest and white flowers on the finish.

[182]
The Adam's Step Riesling is a delightful medium-sweet expression of Riesling. Aromas of lemon curd and rosemary are consistent on the palate. Textural with chalky notes, this wine is pretty with bright acidity that supports a good concentration of fruit and balances the natural sweetness. Good length and structure.

[183]
A charming, easygoing aperitif. White blossom and peach with a flinty, mineral edge on the nose. Ripe peach and lime zest on the palate with a honeyed undertone. The zingy acid provides freshness 'til the finish.

[184]
Fresh and lifted nose, built around a core of fleshy peach, Asian Pear, lime and green apple, lined by a subtle flintiness and oiliness. Vibrant and persistent in the mouth, with an elegant, yet robust, acid line and refreshing minerality lifting the richness of the orchard and citrus fruit. Lingering spicy touches add complexity and energy.

[185]
Reveals an earthy, herbal character on the nose with honeysuckle and white flowers. Bright acidity is linear and runs in tandem with honey crisp apples and apricot tarts flavours. Layers of flavour uncoil, and the off-dry style creates a wine with focus and harmony. Excellent length, lingering while it finishes on minerality.

[186]
Complex aromas and intense flavours of roasted lime, jasmine and tangy lime curd on toast, with a lovely grippy texture and racy, mineral acidity. Lipsmacking, with just a hint of sweetness on the finish.

[187]
Aromas of orange peel, honeysuckle and stone fruit on the palate. The acidity lifts the palate to keep the wine refreshing and cleansing.

[188]
Loureiro bringing a delicious Riesling-esque touch of cool, zesty lime, white blossom and a subtle leafiness.

[189]
Still so young, completely focused on the grape variety, with citrus notes, oyster shell and fresh herbs. The acidity is powerful but is offset by an overwhelming concentration. It builds a tension between freshness and balance in its youth. The wine will not reach its true greatness for at least 10 years.

[190]
A complex nose of peach purée, apricot and honeysuckle with tropical touches of freshly cut pineapple. This bursts on the tongue delivering crystalline lemon notes at the back of the mouth alongside crisp red apple and hints of orange zest. A lovely intense wine with layers of flavour and a drive to a lingering finish.

[191]
On the nose, clover honey and lemon drops with radiant florals, piques of squeezed citrus and stunning spice. The texture is a combination of rich lemon curd and glistening mineral brilliance.

[192]
A Riesling with petrol and flinty minerals on the nose, in addition to waxy green apple, lime and a touch of earthiness. Green fruits and a hint of beeswax on the bone-dry palate, with salinity and a solid streak of acidity as the backbone.

[193]
Sweet and juicy peach and lychee on the nose. Brilliant freshness on a palate with layers of fleshy fruit – marmalade, nectarine and dried yellow fruit. Still has ages ahead.

[194]
Delicate peach and apricot meet orange peel, smoke and white pepper; wet stone and truffle notes add depth. Pure and rich. Ripe acidity carries into a long savoury finish.

[195]
A quintessential well-balanced Riesling. Bright citrus white flower and straw notes on the nose. The bracing acid character is balanced by fruit concentration, primarily citrus (grapefruit) and stone fruits, which permeate the mid-palate.

[196]
A zippy, lively Riesling. Airy mineral tones announce the aromatics with juicy pineapple, smoky flint and ocean brine. The palate zips along with green mangoes, sea salt and wet slate as dry as a bone.

[197]
Stone and floral aromas surrounding hints of white peach and nectarine flesh. The palate is fleshy and fruit-driven, with pineapple and guava notes laced with a stone and saline mineral lift at the finish.

[198]
The nose is more nuanced and shows complex notes of ripe peaches and acacia flowers with a mineral undercurrent. Vibrant acidity gives the wine a winningly racy balance and length.

[199]
Racing and vibrant, this wine showcases generous stone fruit on the nose, with a whisper of white flowers, contrasting the austere, steely palate with a strong acid backbone. The Riesling-like tension of rocks (wet stone minerality) plus fruit gives a zippy character to this wine.

[200]
Vibrant notes of white pepper, crushed slate and electric lime zest leap from the glass. The palate is linear and lean with soaring acidity that complements the razor's edge notes of slate and lemon zest.

