WHITE — Cluster 0: Rich, mineral-driven whites with creamy orchard depth
2,695 wines total | 200 sampled
============================================================

[1]
This village-level Mercurey boasts more tension and depth than the other offerings from Chanzy, with aromas of lemon peel, nectarine and quince.

[2]
Balanced white peach and wildflowers lift from the glass, complemented by honeycomb and ginger spice. Medium- to full-bodied, with fabulous depth of rich fruit character, framed by spicy acid tension and balanced by tangerine oil. The finish is long, with crushed stone minerality and lingering wildflower aromatics. Expressive and beautifully balanced, it delivers richness and tension in perfect harmony, with plenty of ripe, bright California character.

[3]
The wittily named Au Quin Château ('no château') is a lovely, successful wine at every level, with aromas of ripe apricot, hay, beeswax and a savoury, gamey undertone; it is a very complex wine.

[4]
Expressive aromatics lean tropical, with fresh-sliced ginger building into a rich core of juicy, bright fruit—fresh-pressed pineapple interwoven with yellow apple, layered with impressively fragrant baking spice. Chamomile tea-like tannins lend further structure, leading into a long, honeyed finish. Bright, fresh, tension-filled, and possessing incredible staying power.

[5]
A wine that is a model of elegance and restraint. In an appellation that can tend towards extreme richness, the domaine has delivered a wine of finesse and elegance, without sacrificing complexity or depth. The initial attack features citrus peel and mineral aromas that expand to include passionfruit and pomelo, touched with acacia flowers and spice. The texture is lively and approachable, but there is a brooding power here as well, and the dense extract is felt as it opens up. Youthful still, this will be better in another decade and should drink well over the next 50 years.

[6]
Bright and focused, with apricot and lemon depth supported by subtle lactic richness. Well-judged oak provides graphite and spicy structure, giving a bold yet elegant profile with fine concentration.

[7]
Aromatics of roasted chamomile, ripe pears, and a nuanced note of lanolin and beeswax introduce a subtlety to this wine. The palate offers a beguiling complexity, ripe pomme fruits, bruised apples, and salty sea air minerality, giving it a depth and sauvage edge along with its Meyer lemon and lemon verbena concentration.

[8]
A nice reduction on the nose with notes of chipped stone, grilled lemon peel and an intensely salty ocean air. The palate offers glinting minerality with precise and juicy Meyer lemon pulp, bright green mangoes and an astonishing saline and mineral framing.

[9]
These notes emerge boldly, offering umami-rich truffle, honey, and wet stone earth flavours. Medium-bodied, with super expressive acidity and mineral tension, the wine features exotic tropical fruit nuances on the long and satisfying finish.

[10]
Sage, mint, apricot skin and lime marmalade scents pull you in to an intense, juicy and wonderfully sapid palate, with a lovely lick of tropical fruits and some floral white peach. Poised and zesty, with a stoniness on the mid-palate.

[11]
Glinting with gold hints in the glass, it's fairly rich in style, but with the freshness of the 2021 vintage, dripping with lemon curd citrus zestiness and a touch of leesiness.

[12]
Impressive depth and character are the first impressions. Offers a spine-tingling aroma of lemon peel and gooseberry, with fresh floral notes and a strong impression of salty minerality. The fruit continues onto the palate, where the impressive extract gives a sense of depth, leading into the lingering finish.

[13]
This walks a perfect tightrope between buttery silkiness and electrifying acidity on the palate. Nuanced, with thrilling tension.

[14]
A distinct saltiness hits the nose first, followed by richer notes of wildflower honey, crisp apples, and Meyer lemons that also run through the palate. This is a wine that has weight and texture but doesn't feel heavy, finishing with a persistent saline snap, a clean lift, and a cooling herbal edge.

[15]
Beautiful, nuanced nose led by camomile and wild flowers. Soft and wide on the palate with a delicious unctuosity coating the fleshy pear, melon and quince fruit. Zesty freshness brings the flavours into focus, a fine acid line offsetting the rich and wide mid-palate. Subtle and elegant use of wood adds a fine layer of toasted almonds and warm brioche.

[16]
Waxy, spicy, broad and fleshy, it's full of melon, peach, pear, mint and herbs, with a well balanced, perfumed finish.

[17]
Fennel top, powdered ginger, yellow apple, pear peel and quince, with a smoky depth of field to the yellow fruit and lemon curd. The mid palate has a pleasant weight, balanced by a firm acid backbone. Long finish with a peppery and gingery finish.

[18]
This has all the classic zesty citrus and flinty mineral characters. Racy acidity, good tension and round nutty tones, which will develop further with bottle age.

[19]
At almost 20 years old, this is a revelation. The bouquet reveals a slightly exotic note of mirabelle plums and passion fruit, with hints of star anise and smoke. The texture is still lively and youthful but surprisingly dense on the palate. It is undoubtedly mature yet still showing marvellously well.

[20]
This classic wine boasts moreish aromas of Mirabelle plums touched with honey, 'the beginning of apricot and quince' according to director Louis Gimonnet. The palate has marvellous concentration and depth of flavour, balanced acidity and superb elegance and finesse.

[21]
The village Meursault from Lafon is consistently among the references for the appellation; 2024 is no exception. This is a Meursault done in the classic style, with rich aromas of ripe apple, marzipan and white flowers. The texture is silky and delicate but sufficiently substantial for cellaring. If it lacks the frisson of excitement of some of the premiers crus, we are recompensed with elegance.

[22]
The beautiful, complex Corton-Charlemagne from Dugat-Py offers ripe pear, quince and passion fruit aromas, coloured with hints of soft white flowers, baking spice and butter. The texture is marvellously balanced; dense, rich and creamy, but not fat.

[23]
There is a beautiful texture to this wine – a ripe pear aroma, hints of hazelnut, an edge of lemon peel and a floral note. The texture was generous but not heavy, with a buttery edge, a slight, pleasant hint of phenolic bitterness and a lingering finish.

[24]
The Caillerets premier cru from Caroline Morey is spectacularly good, with exotic notes of Mirabelle plums and melon overlaid with floral notes and hints of smoky reduction, saline minerality and spice. There is tension here as well as depth and concentration.

[25]
Opens with appealing aromas of honey on buttered toast. Fresh citrus palate, with sweetly honeyed, meadow flower notes balanced by brisk acidity and a touch of salinity; all underpinned by a firm mineral backbone. The old vine fruit is expressive.

[26]
Fragrant lemon, lime zest, and apple blossom notes build momentum on the medium-bodied palate, where lingering notes of baking spice, ginger, and fine oak frame creamy yellow apple and pear fruit. A firm spine of racy acidity leaves a tingling impression, inviting another sip.

[27]
Generous poached pear aromatics alongside rich vanilla bean and sweet white florals. The palate is polished and rich. Baked pear tart and ripe golden apples play against toasted brioche and butterscotch.

[28]
Powerful yet fresh with candied lemon zest, mature pear and lemon blossom. Beautiful acidity supports concentrated fruit and a rounded mousse. Pastry and butter richness add depth, aided by a gentle mushroom note.

[29]
Bright lemon peel and nectarine fruit, a hint of salty mineral and a touch of smoky reduction. The texture is lively and bright, the finish is long.

[30]
An astounding Pošip, among the best in the region, its aromatics are evocative of cool climate Chardonnay. It is decadent, with honeyed apricots, poached pear and notes of toasted scone. The palate is rich with ripe grilled pineapple, fleshy white peaches, and a savoury dash of white pepper, bringing on the finish with a lift.

[31]
Jason Millar: Papaya, butter, corn and green peach. Very interesting nose with definition and detail. A little reduction? Palate is concentrated and even slightly chewy with barrel tannins but should relax and flesh out. A note of fudge on the finish. Andy Howard MW: Refined, not too showy. Focused and precise. Subtle oak. Quite restrained on the palate with plenty of freshness and vitality. Should age very well. A top-quality example. Roger Jones: A beautiful, elegant nose, poised, with the gentlest of touches on the fruit. Essence of white nectarine drops, white cob nuts, raw asparagus, a hint of smoke, flint and cool sea breeze. Fresh, focused and a great example of restraint.

[32]
There seems to be a bit more richness to La Romanée this year than in years past, with notes of apple and Williams pear along with the typical notes of minerality and a slight but unexaggerated reduction. The texture is dense and there is perhaps a notch less tension than the Grande Montagne. This should be cellared for a decade before drinking.

[33]
There is a complexity to this Chardonnay, but the ripe fruit dominates. With aromas of poached pear, vanilla cream and ripe sweet peach flesh, the palate offers ripe tropical fruits highlighted by guava and grilled pineapple. There is a hint of minerality.

[34]
Saline and mineral with soaring notes of chipped flint, smoky grilled lemon wedge, wild whiteflowers, and it's thirst slaking in its acidity. The fruit shows a gleaming edge of mineral salinity.

[35]
A deep-coloured blend with complex scents of lanolin, beeswax, acacia honey, cinnamon and tangy macchia (scrubland). On the palate, a rich and textural quality with staggering salinity cutting through a creamy structure. Long and garrigue-accented on the finish, it bodes well for cellaring.

[36]
Golden apple and pear with subtle savoury and herbal edges. Juicy fruit and firm acidity give grip and freshness. Bold and gently complex, the evolving layers promise further clarity and balance with time.

[37]
Nice texture to the palate, with subtle stone fruit and tropical notes, some spice and an undertow of minerality.

[38]
Simmeringly tempting with its restrained nose of delightful shades of green - from Granny Smith apple and lime to lemon balm and cress. Uber-clean without sacrificing character; it is fluid, crisp and precise. Flecks of white pepper bounce off the white grapefruit backdrop. This captures the cool, pristine beauty of North Okanagan's Lake Country.

[39]
Subtle stone fruit, citrus, and racy spice complement mineral notes. This wine shines with elegance, purity and a fine line of acidity, creating a classy, long and focused finish.

[40]
The 2017 'Guinevere' Chardonnay has a pronounced sweet vanilla, yellow apple and creamy brioche perfume with notes of thyme and flint. Saline and buttery on the palate, with concentrated vanilla, ripe yellow apple, pear drop and lime-like acidity, dusted with wood spices; butterscotch flavours linger on.

[41]
Toasty oak with flint and cheesecloth funk, preserved lemon pith and grapefruit zest with beach sand grip and oomph with sparkling acidity, fruit concentration and a sweet core. Develops beautifully with time, revealing power and volume with a lovely line of fruit woven through. Tight and young now, needing time to open fully.

[42]
In 2023, the wine shows an added layer of mid-palate richness, revealing a silky, suave, medium-bodied expression. Citrus- and saline-driven fruit leads the way, joined by notes of candied ginger and baked apple and pear, all resolving on a long, mineral-rich finish. Precise yet generous, this is a beautifully balanced vintage that combines energy with depth.

[43]
On the nose, nutmeg-poached pear, candied ginger, and honeyed apricot flesh announce a depth and roundness to the wine. The body delivers brilliant texture, buoyed by soaring acidity. Fresh, lively and yet rounded. Juicy notes of Meyer lemon, meringue and peach candies with a finish kissed by spice and cinnamon.

[44]
Aromas of ripe sweet pear flesh, candied lemon peel, and sweet clover honey segue into a fleshy palate full of lemon curd, savoury streaks of lemon beebalm, and a dash of ocean salinity.

[45]
This has lovely structure, with gentle toasty oak that's supporting not overwhelming, as well as a lovely freshness through to the finish. It's classy, with buttery cashew nut smoothness and flavours of lemon cream and baked apples.

[46]
Engaging ripe melon and pear aromas mark this seductive premier cru from Long-Depaquit. The wine is approachably elegant, with a soft, silky texture and a plump feel on the palate.

[47]
Lively and forward, offering aromas of pomelo and passion fruit on the nose, leading into a texture on the palate that is dense and substantial, yet does not lack freshness; the balance between the acidity and the substance carries the wine to a lingering finish.

[48]
Toasty aromas, honeyed, nutty with fresh citrus and tropical touches. Rounded palate with preserved lemon citrus, candied peel, bready notes and salty-savoury hints – like salted butter on sourdough bread.

[49]
Bright and expressive, bursting with aromas and flavours of juicy lemons and white flowers. There's also texture. Easy to enjoy.

[50]
This wine has a bright, lemony aroma edged with smoky reductive notes, along with a certain amount of oak spice. The texture has admirable tension, but there is no lack of substance to balance this out. Give this wine three to five years and drink it over the next 20.

[51]
Honeyed aromatics of sweet gardenia flowers, rich lemon curd and notes of nutmeg with a hint of poached pear. The palate shows creamy citrus and baked apple flavours, notes of ripe pear flesh and vanilla tones that carry into the finish livened by a juicy Meyer lemon lift.

[52]
The top white from Benjamin Leroux displaces peerless elegance and deft balance, managing to keep the powerful substance and concentration lively, lovely and fresh. The aromas of ripe nectarine and quince are touched with acacia flower, cream and spice, and the acidity is given a boost by a suggestion of pleasant bitterness (beaux amers) that sustains it through a lingering finish.

[53]
The aromatics are framed on a filigreed minerality; stone and crushed chalk hold up tart lemon zest and hints of savoury dried white flowers. The palate is elegant and supple with a saline mineral backbone: concentrated Meyer lemon pulp, candied ginger and thirst slaking acidity.

[54]
Nutty and ripe on the nose, with ample oak spice. Ripe bruised apples on the nose, hints of vanilla and a touch of lemon curd. The focus here is on oak flavours, baked apple and full malo.

[55]
Nice balance of just-there funk and plenty of punch with classic Margaret River Chardonnay notes. Firmly structured with top-notch lightly toasted oak, crushed roast cashew, abundant fruit in shades of ripe stonefruit and salted lemon, with pithy yet tight-knit phenolics. Acidity trips the light fantastic, driving with gusto. Bitter almond note and dried herbs add savoury intrigue. Finish as strong as entry; a firm handshake wine.

[56]
The 2023 Santa Barbara County Chardonnay is surprisingly serious for an appellation bottling. There's a delicate complexity of citrus zest and cream along with sourdough and leesy yeast notes that give the wine breadth and savoury depth, with a precise linear backbone of acid and a flinty, gently reductive edge.

[57]
Smoky and complex, with rounded stone fruit, zesty citrus, spice and herbal notes. A creamy-chalky texture and a long, mouthwatering, saline, evolving finish.

[58]
Chevalier-Montrachet 2023 from Domaine Michel Niellon is among the luminous successes of the vintage. The initial restraint on the nose gives way on the palate to aromas of ripe pear and quince with a hint of marzipan and fresh white flowers. The texture is generous, almost voluptuous, but there is a balance and elegance that hint at its noble origins. Ideally, one would wait 10 years for this wine to show its full potential.

[59]
The 2023 is toasty and slightly tropical, with a mineral, stony quality which runs through the core, and lovely bright acidity. It finishes with some zesty lemon peel and Mediterranean herbs. Nicely balanced and very fresh.

[60]
A laser-focused minerality and dynamic, electric citrus zip with a slice of lemon crusted with sea salt, crystalised ginger and notes of dried thyme and lemon verbena. A streak of crushed sea shell salinity lifts creamy lemon pastry cream, vibrant and mouth-watering, with juicy citrus and early season pomme fruit, fleshy Meyer lemon pulp, and freshly cut Granny Smith vie for your salivating palate as this wine crescendos with a fruit and mineral verve that's second to none.

[61]
Lime cordial and toast. Palate structure is broad but still bright. Toasty, aromatic nose with a gentle perfume. Layers of texture and flavour. Pretty seamless, with a bright, clean saline finish. Citrus, hazelnut and herbal edges with a hint of reduction. Generous, juicy. Baking spice notes well integrated.

[62]
It delivers a wine of striking Chablisienne character. Ripping acidity drives beautifully precise orchard fruit, accented by subtle buttery nuances, yet the overall impression is one of laser-focused linearity and freshness. Remarkable for its expressive acid tension, depth, and length. So precise, so vibrant, and so complex.

[63]
This crisp, refreshing Petit Chablis appealed with its forward aromas of nectarine and lemon peel on the initial attack, leading into a light-bodied texture with crisp acidity and a modest finish.

[64]
The aromatics are gorgeously honeyed, but stay with green mangoes and taut early-season pineapple. The saline minerality is bright and sings into the finish, with savoury lemon verbena showing alongside a flinty, smoky grilled lemon peel. Dazzling freshness.

[65]
Evolved aromas with appealing purity of grilled stone fruit, oyster shell and cream. Palate stays fresh and clean, finishing short but bright.

[66]
Its deep yellow hue and slightly oxidative nose evoke Jura Chardonnay, with generous dried citrus, toasted almond, and bruised peach. Flavours of stewed orange, avocado blossom honey, and salty ocean spray bring added energy to the mid-palate while preserved lemon and yellow wood sorrel lift the finish.

[67]
Curry-leaf warmth and reductive spice meet lime and white peach. Umami and Asian spice details lead into a rich, toasty palate, the acidity cutting through with fresh drive.

[68]
Intensely aromatic, bursting with sun-warmed lemon, vanilla and macadamia nut, yet surprisingly fresh and balanced on the palate. Lean acid structure and notable minerality complement the ripe character, which otherwise dominates the palate. Lemon zest, green apple and cream provide playful appeal, while a long, toasty finish brings a touch of sophistication.

[69]
There is an astonishing purity of fruit with fabulous aromas of ripe pear and hazelnut. The texture is rich but not overly so, and there is enough acidity to drive this to a lingering finish.

[70]
It brims with layers of honey, toasted nuts and caramel, lifted by notes of candied fruit and a whisper of coconut. Vibrant acidity and a lick of salinity keep everything in balance.

[71]
From an older vintage, this displays a lovely honeyed creaminess to the citrus aromas. Impressive freshness to the palate, with vibrant acidity, but an undertow of toasty, savoury nuance. Finishes so fresh – brisk and crisp with a touch of savoury salinity too.

[72]
Inviting lemon thyme and gunflint with vibrant acidity. Bright and full-bodied, showing toasty complexity, lush tropical fruit and pineapple. Balanced, ripe fruit and acidity with a long, mouthwatering finish.

[73]
A classy, cellar-worthy white Burgundy, a wine of burgeoning richness and oatmeally substance but with a bright, steely swish of fresh fruit and acidity.

[74]
Fresh citrus nose with a hint of smoke, followed by a honeyed lemon palate with brisk acidity and touches of fresh lime and pear.

[75]
A creamy nose of lemon skin and spiced, salted curd on gently toasted sourdough with a cedar dusting. The palate is full of Gingin power, with savoury tones of lemon leaf, crushed almond and spiced beeswax framing the juicy crunch of yellow nectarine. It's already drinking well now, but will in time open up and the detail will show itself among the broader brushstrokes.

[76]
Marmalade scented, light dried apricot and dates as well as light toast interplaying on the palate. Tart zest hint at the end.

[77]
There is an intense concentration of zesty lime peel and nectarine fruit, with notes of verbena and a hint of salty minerality. The acidity is lively, balanced by enough extract to stretch the finish on the palate luxuriously.

[78]
Ripe stone fruit notes with some tropical edges. Weighty on the palate with bright acidity to finish. Very clean, fresh and sappy.

[79]
The bouquet is still surprisingly youthful, with notes of pomelo, lime peel and nectarine on the initial attack that opens up on the palate, showing further hints of fresh and dried flowers, coconut water and toasted walnuts, underscored by flinty minerality. The acidity is crisp, racy and bright, and the wine lingers endlessly on the finish.

[80]
There's a dazzling freshness and taut fruit character. A melange of spices and lively, savoury herbs alights the glass, with a streak of minerality that cuts through the bright citrus character. A dynamic Chardonnay electric in character. Stony and yet offering plenty of fruity depth, mint, and white pepper enlivens the finish.

[81]
This very stylish wine enchants with aromas of grapefruit and green apple and notes of almond, spice and smoke. The texture on the palate is impressively concentrated, with abundant extract balanced by crisp acidity that draws it to a rewarding finish.

[82]
Creamy with vanilla and lemony richness, this is a balanced wine that offers a somewhat international approach to Rioja with the noticable influence of Chardonnay. The palate is sweet and unctuous, with ripe yellow fruit and melon.

[83]
Lemon, lemon zest and green apple crunch are offset by white peach, toasted almonds and honeycomb. A serious yet unpretentious wine.

[84]
This is barrel-fermented and then aged for nine months in French oak, bringing a creamy-toasty, savoury intensity to the brightly rendered, crisp red apple fruit.

[85]
Very mineral, very fresh, and very good, the Pucelles from Alvina Pernot offers a bright, lemon and gooseberry fruit with a salty edge and a hint of lees. The texture is lively, with medium body, abundant tension, and impressive length.

[86]
Hints of richness lurk beneath the cool, crisp skin of baked apple and citrus fruit. Impressive balance between buttery wood and vanilla tones and the vibrant acidity. Vibrant lime and citrus notes brighten the finish.

[87]
There's a touch of austerity to this wine. Mineral, saline, a touch upright on the aromatics, and a smoky grilled lemon wedge. The palate unravels over time, showing green mangoes and taut elements of sweet Meyer lemon pulp.

[88]
A lovely wine, with moderately pronounced aromas of nectarine and green apple, touched with a note of spice. The texture is lively, light and fresh, with crisp acidity, medium body and a pleasantly lingering finish. This will be perfect for current drinking or mid-term cellaring.

[89]
The nose displays honeyed peachy tones, with elegant citrus and a touch of florality. In the mouth a generous, creamy texture is supported by beautifully integrated oak and balanced by brisk, zippy acidity. Loaded with fresh citrus – lemon, lime, grapefruit – this displays a clean mineral drive and cut to the finish. Characterised by its richness.

[90]
Mineral-led at first, with crushed shell and quartz, then sweet clarified butter, blanched almonds, nougat, brioche, gun smoke and lemon rind swell in intensity. Curry leaf and white blossom whirl on a salty breeze. Mouthfilling, yet at the same time lithe, the fruit line is long and glassy. Lemon drop, a hint of dried herbs and glossy phenolics. Such a delight, this swims over the palate, all the parts are balanced, and the finish simmers for some time. This shows clarity of place.

[91]
Good intensity of juicy apple and firm peach fruit, fresh lemony acidity and fine length.

[92]
Ripe and redolent with accents of vanilla and oaky spice. Aromas of sweet candied oranges, lemon cake and vanilla bean give way to a palate that pops with ripe creamy citrus tones, smooth chalky minerality and a brisk, driven finish.

[93]
The old vines have delivered a wine that opens with crisp, clean aromas of lemon peel and verbena but takes on weight on the palate, with hints of chalk and oyster shell as the density and weight become apparent.

[94]
Refined aromas of citrus fruits, melons, star fruit, fresh dough, wild flowers and a hint of spice. Subtle and precise in character. On the palate it is dry, displaying good tension and freshness, a creamy texture and a sophisticated finish.

[95]
Lime, pear and mango on the nose. Good attack: concentrated, fresh and stylish, showing weight without heaviness or flab. Graceful, with some oak on the long finish.

[96]
The house's signature reductive flintiness segues into notions of acacia honey, camomile and alpine herbs, framed by subdued oak spice. Chalky salinity complements an elegant, midweight stone fruit core edged by light butteriness, flowing into a supple finish with an elegant balsamic lift.

[97]
Subdued but enchanting with hints of opulence, glossy notes of polished beeswax and lemon skin, sea spray and lightly toasted oak. Whoosh of concentrated, luscious fruit that's open and round, mouthfilling and voluminous, with loose-knit tannins. Powerful acid drive with detailed fruit and citrus tones. Silvery, long and fine with very pure fruit. Give this time and it will transform, still very tightly wound right now.

[98]
Offering aromas of spiced apples and pear with a touch of sweet citrus. Baked apples on the palate, with warm baking spices and notes of vanilla.

[99]
A wonderfully bright through-line of fresh citrus peel and early-season apple, driven by crunchy acidity and taut, tart flavours. There's real generosity beneath that precision, exploding across the palate with effusive white floral notes and crushed almond nuances. Signature briny salinity comes through clearly, some lemon oil, followed by a flicker of underripe pineapple on the finish. Already complex and deeply enticing, yet clearly built for the long haul.

[100]
Boasts aromas of greengage plums and lemon zest, with a blast of limestone minerality and a hint of smoky reduction. The texture has great energy and a lovely, silky feel. Ages very well, with the minerality keeping the wine very awake.

[101]
It flashes cool climate Chardonnay aromas of lemon curd and honey. Creamy citrus fruits enveloped by notes of vanilla, poached pear and a backbone of saline minerality that carries brightly to the finish.

[102]
Wood spice, lemongrass, chamomile and oak spice. Some baked lemons and salty minerality - it has a nice initial start - peach, honey, vanilla and dried herbs with a cool dollop of creamy acidity, but then it drops from the mid palate, and fades away quite quickly. Ends enjoyably salty.

[103]
Showing its stage of evolution with a golden depth in the glass, there's an enveloping warmth here, of soft butterscotch and sweet caramel, ripe nectarine and peach fruit, plus some pineapple and guava tropicality. There is a honeyed mellowness from age, but the hallmark acid line is evident, keeping everything harmonious and ensuring freshness and the desire for a second glass.

[104]
Think ripening lemons, wet rocks and the region's hallmark sea spray minerality balanced by white pear, green apple and some time on lees to add mouthfeel.

[105]
There is a voluptuousness to this wine with spice and texture. Richer and riper with a fresh finish. Elegant given the acidity.

[106]
Elegant and modest in alcohol, it's tangy and appetising, with a nutty savouriness and an intense zestiness – think lime curd on toast.

[107]
It's a ripe, full-throttle, succulent California Chardonnay full of ripe peach, apricot, and zesty Meyer lemon notes. Salted lemon peel with a long toffee-caramel cream finish. Decadent but with a nice dry finish.

[108]
Lemon curd, wet stone and brightness, tons of fresh white pepper and cardamom, a consistent ripe stone fruit finish.

[109]
The forward aromas of nectarine and greengage plums have a hint of verdant minerality, while the texture is racy and very fine. This should drink well on release but has the potential for at least mid-term ageing.

[110]
This Chardonnay shows plenty of mineral complexity. Gleaming saline minerality on the nose with sea salt and edgy notes of lemon verbena and lemon pith. The palate is loaded with juicy Meyer lemon pulp, salty and framed with lemon beebalm and savoury seaspray.

[111]
Aromatically effusive, with bruised apples, poached pear, and a hint of Madagascar vanilla bean, this Chardonnay aims for ripeness. The palate is fleshy, with macerated peaches and ripe pineapple at the fore. Toasted brioche, almond skin elements, and nutmeg-spiced pear cake envelop the palate in a rich, spice-driven roundness.

[112]
This wine reflects the vintage with greater tropical expression, revealing hints of honey, beeswax, candied citrus peel, and apricot. These elements combine to create a wonderfully warm richness, layered with brown baking spices and pressed wildflower notes. Medium-bodied on the palate, it strikes a fine balance of an almost chalky or velvety texture with great energy. The result is impressive in its length, with saline-tinged acidity bringing brightness and zesty complexity to the finish.

[113]
A beautiful wine showcasing Carinyena Blanca. Waxy, lightly smoky, golden apples and pastry dough, all carried by an incredible wave of acidity. A serious wine, but one that's very hard to put down.

[114]
Lush apple compote nose with hints of white flowers. Rich, full-bodied, and concentrated with lively acidity; a good package though could use more finesse.

[115]
Rich and complex, with ripe stone and tropical fruit balanced by crisp acidity. Yellow apple, quince and apricot add depth. Mineral notes provide freshness. Long, zesty finish with a subtle leesy texture.

[116]
It has a very attractive leanness on the nose, almost peppery, then aromas and flavours of lemon citrus, with some apple. Crisp, clean and very easy to enjoy.

[117]
This is all peaches and cream, with some clean, zippy lemon fruit, and a hint of mango.

[118]
Royer is a classic of the appellation, with all the signature Eola Amity 'spice' and what Associate Winemaker Chris Baker calls an 'oilyness' on the palate. The succulent depth is incredible crispness to the citrus character, with a rich depth of tropicality on the back palate.

[119]
The 2021 Fesstivity Blanc de Blancs is festive, bright, and indulgent. High-toned acidity gives the wine energy and precision, balanced by a delicate saline edge. A fine, persistent mousse lifts aromas of orchard fruit and white florals, adding elegance and vibrancy to the profile. It's a polished and expressive sparkling wine.

[120]
Developed nose with rich tones. Medium-weight palate shows freshness, cutting through that richness, finishing clean and steady. Vibrantly rich and heady.

[121]
Glossy and textured, with ripe white peach, nectarine and subtle floral notes. Butterscotch, cedar and vanilla. Firm acidity and gentle wood tannins bring structure. Long, slightly pithy finish with good complexity.

[122]
Bold, buttery, with plenty of golden fruit and a hint of honey. Rich palate with good acidity and nice length. More savoury than sweet. Opulent but with a firmly mineral streak that keeps it in check. Stylish and rich with a hint of peanut brittle to finish. Refined, elegant nose. All the components are in very fine balance. Oak is evident but subtle. Bright acidity and mineral notes keep the palate fresh. Lovely purity. Stone fruit, melon, spice, cedar, lemon thyme. Layered. Freshness on the mid-palate from tiny bubbles of citrus, freshening the textural feel. Seamless.

[123]
The return of a fresh, mineral poise after three warm vintages. Lovely supple texture, with a fine acid line and gentle juiciness. Lemon rind, yellow apple peel and white peach mingle on the palate, with pleasant weight on the mid palate.

[124]
It showcases classic Chardonnay character from this site, with ripe citrus and yellow apple. It is medium-bodied with a lush fruit profile, a well-defined mid-palate, and rich baking spice notes. The finish is long, building in depth with a warming richness.

[125]
Super aromatic, featuring gorgeous notes of candied ginger and salted lemon peel, complemented by ripe apricot. Super fresh and inviting, with a plush and layered texture imbued with wonderful spiciness. Dense core of very ripe orchard fruits, citrus, white peach, apricot, and abundant wildflower and honeysuckle aromas.

[126]
Pretty aromatics of sweet nectarine flesh, honeyed ginger, spiced ripe pear, and lovely white florals. The palate is lithe and elegantly fruited, with ripe pomme fruits, green mangoes and a saline mineral edge that frames it all nicely.

[127]
Engaging citrus flower and quince with a bright, lively palate. Limey and zesty, with tension and a saline finish.

[128]
Bright notes of Meyer lemons and sea salt on the nose, with mineral highlights of chipped flint. The palate is bright and layered, as taut notes of citrus, peach skin and early season apricot are framed by fresh mint leaves and sea salt.

[129]
Electric and energetic, with citrus and lemongrass lifted by smoky, toasty maturity. Bright, zippy acidity frames emerging lanolin and savoury depth. Powerful, characterful and already layered, with clear promise for further complexity.

[130]
Buttery toasty aromas – like a slightly overcooked pastry case – paired with really vibrant lime citrus. A pure Burgundy-alike, with a signature blend of minerality, toastiness and vibrant citrus. Purity of fruit that persists along the line of the palate to a fresh and mouthwatering finish, still with unfurling layers of flavour.

[131]
Plenty of oaky spice balanced by lovely fruit and a backbone of acid-driven elegance. Aromas of honeysuckle, bruised apples and spiced pear tart. A palate of ripe golden apples, rich almond pastry cream and a delicious spiced pear with nutmeg.

[132]
Candied ginger, yellow apple, and French vanilla pastry puff on the nose balanced by a refreshingly zippy, medium-bodied white packed with baking spices and finding focus on a chalky mineral finish.

[133]
Apple and baked pastry lead to a creamy and rich palate. It displays lemon and some woody spice, with an obvious sweetness from the oak.

[134]
Generous with acacia, vanilla and spice layered over quince, lemon and apple skin. Supple and rounded with ripe yellow fruit, beeswax richness and firm structure. Concentrated and bold.

[135]
This Chardonnay delivers a crystalline fruit profile that airs on the side of tropical. Bright, underripe mango, delicious golden apple and Meyer lemon flavours are pungent and weighty with a sharp, angular finish. This balances with an undeniable white floral fragrance and an indulgent note of fresh cream and pastry dough. Pristine fruit character, creamy malolactic secondary notes and coastal minerality are noteworthy. Its superior acid profile and obvious ageing potential put this wine a cut above the rest. This wine is stellar now but shows promise for development over time.

[136]
The ripe pear, apricot and quince aromas are coloured with a bit of reduction and an attractive tarragon edge; the texture is vibrant and rich at the same time. The wine delivers great balance and astounding length that is capable of ageing for decades.

[137]
Dazzling cool-climate Chardonnay shows fantastic aromatics of toasted hazelnut, lemon pastry cream, and deep notes of grilled lemon wedge. The palate offers wonderful texture and heft, with rich preserved lemon and a touch of creme brulee on the finish.

[138]
Strong reductive notes masked other aromas, with a prominent cabbagey taste, however there's a smoky fragrance with baked apple, wet stone and a sweet and sour note on the palate.

[139]
Aromas of sweet apples, ripe dragon fruit, and jasmine, with hints of toasted nuts. The wine is rounded, leaning towards a rich mouthfeel, but with enough fresh aromatics and acidity to maintain a lifted finish.

[140]
This white Maranges from Jean-Baptiste Jessiaume is light lemon-yellow in colour and offers pleasant notes of lemon peel and mandarin, with a suggestion of white blossoms and spice. The texture is round and full, but there is enough acidity to keep everything lively.

[141]
A gorgeous premier cru Chablis. Glinting green golden in the glass, it's tight and lemony, with seductive buttery, toasty notes and a lemon curd vibrancy. Spicy and with a mineral streak, there's a lot going on here – a complex and classy glassful.

[142]
Pale gold and aromatic, it expresses notes of honeysuckle, ripe orchard fruit and fresh pastry, with a bright, balanced palate and a long, elegant finish.

[143]
A poised, sophisticated Chardonnay showcasing potential for still wines. It shows creamy vanilla, ripe peach, melon and citrus peel on the nose. Juicy, sweet-spiced stone fruit and lemon oil are underlined by a textured, saline tone and bright freshness, leading to impressive depth and a long finish.

[144]
Forward, charming aromas of quince and nectarine enliven the first impression of Mugnier's white from the Clos de la Maréchale. There is impressive depth on the palate, with enough acidity to balance out the lush fruit character and carry the wine to a lingering finish. This is one of the rare whites from Nuits that will be both pleasant on release and capable of ageing for a decade or more.

[145]
Historical Vineyards Collection Chardonnay—notes of ripe Meyer lemon and raw butter layer over flavours of toasted meringue and salty pecorino. High acidity and wet stone minerality provide structure and brightness to an otherwise richer feeling Chardonnay.

[146]
A textbook example of this climat, with generous aromas of mirabelle and nectarine, shaded with salty minerality, soft floral notes and spice. There is impressive density for the vintage and abundant acidity to bring the wine into balance.

[147]
Complex and intense, this Mâcon Chardonnay has a lovely weight in the mouth, with buttery, toasty, nutty flavours, delicate white flowers and warm lemon peel juiciness. It lingers on the palate, with a spicy length of flavour.

[148]
Retains surprising freshness for the vintage, with an attractive ripe apple and pear aroma, and an edge of citrus peel and mineral. The texture is substantial but still lively, and the combination of extract and acidity leads the wine to a persistent finish.

[149]
A brilliant Chardonnay with a gleaming balance, lemon curd, juicy fruits, and soaring papaya juiciness. Saline and crushed stone, with a chalky finish.

[150]
Youthful and attractive notes of citrus fruits, pineapple, melon, peaches, fresh dough and wild flowers. Dry and harmonious with a pleasant creamy texture, medium weight and refreshing finish. Overall it is a restrained and elegant, pure and precise style of Chardonnay.

[151]
This rich, almost decadent village-level cuvée of Rully displays notes of apricot and quince, with touches of white flowers and spice. The texture is rich and dense but not overly so. This will be ready to drink on release.

[152]
Lemony and bright, with saline mineral notes and a suggestion of acacia flowers, delicious, with a thrillingly crisp, linear tension and considerable persistence on the palate.

[153]
Les Combettes is one of its finest premiers crus, with a core of intense apple and white peach fruit. A great balance between richness and precision.

[154]
Rich, warm and long, Fèvre's Bougros has noticeably more power than the fine, elegant premiers crus in 2024. The aromas here range from nectarine to peach and quince; the texture is dense yet lively.

[155]
A combination of the fresh saline character blended with great texture and rich lemon. Salt, and chipped flint. Defining characters are brightness, florality and energy.

[156]
A gentle, unadorned rendition of Chardonnay, and very welcome for it. Crisp, fresh and upbeat – moreish and mouth-watering.

[157]
Zesty nose with delicate oak, and crisp green-apple fruit. Medium acidity, which complements the good concentration of ripe stone...

[158]
Complex green apple, herb and bready tones with some oxidative notes. Seems tense, coiled like a spring. Lovely texture and elegance with a nutty, floral finish. Incredible energy and focus. Smoky, savoury and bready character while retaining elegant minerality and lifted citric acidity.

[159]
Bright and slightly reductive. Tangerine peel, white flowers, melon rind, and a touch of almonds with a saline frame.

[160]
Bright and linear, with plenty of salinity. Tart and citrus across the palate, crushed chalk, lime pith and salty lemon wedge. Aromas of chamomile.

[161]
Quince, apricot and blush peach lead with al dente apple and citrus. Gentle smoky reduction, nutty and toasty with savoury lift, while bitter citrus peel and fine concentration give an appetising, mouthwatering finish.

[162]
A dizzying array of aromas range from green apple and peach to soft white blossoms and spice. The texture is dense, but surprisingly good acidity for the vintage deftly balances the richness and carries the wine to a solid finish. Will drink well on release and represents fantastic value in Chablis.

[163]
The wine has a beautiful deep gold colour and is highly complex. Aromas of candied ginger, quince, and white flowers greet the nose, while the palate offers laser-focused acidity that lifts ripe and rich orchard fruit. After all this satiny and silky texture, the acidity kicks in and brings spicy, freshness, and vibrancy. This wine exhibits excellent tension and generosity, with a desire not to let oak overwhelm its character.

[164]
White florals and notes of beeswax mark the aromatics, alongside a dash of sea salt minerality. The palate is signature, a balance of lemon pastry cream, juicy Meyer lemon and fleshy mango fruits. Taut through the finish.

[165]
This pale lemon-yellow wine shows a surprising concentration of apricot and quince aromas with floral and mineral notes that develop with time in the glass. The texture is waxy and broad, with a pleasant heft and weight but enough acidity to balance this richness and draw the wine to a lingering finish.

[166]
There is a freshness here that brightens the density of fruit, hints of tropical fruits, vanilla bean and nutmeg poached pear all play together. Ripe and opulent peaches and pears have a nice, creamy texture that adds multiple dimensions to the fruity opulence.

[167]
Gorgeous aromatics of lemon curd and honeyed ginger, dried meadow white flowers and Madagascar vanilla bean. The palate shows a rich texture. This is an opulent white wine, but it retains a brilliance of structure and lift. Lemon oil, cake batter, and macerated peaches. It offers the richness and opulence while remaining fresh and upright.

[168]
The wine showcases extraordinary richness, underpinned by vibrant acidity, creating a polished and layered expression. Medium-bodied weight builds on the palate, revealing lime citrus, evolving orchard fruit, with tropical fruit nuances, and a hint of saffron, complemented by a subtle touch of cedar and nuances of white truffle. It delivers impressive intensity with a refined finish, clean, bright, fresh, and elegant.

[169]
Pronounced, high-toned and exotic with ripe melon, stone fruits and a hint of spice. Round and full with depth, soft acidity and a moreish, long finish.

[170]
The initial attack boasts a good concentration of lemon peel and floral notes. The texture is silky yet lively, with fresh acidity and a subtle hint of pleasant bitterness that carries through the finish. There is good length for the category.

[171]
It is evocative of lemon sorbet and mint leaf, with clean, pleasing aromatics that communicate a sense of coolness owing to the crushed chalk minerality that leaps from the glass. The palate offers tart Meyer lemon pulp, muddled mint leaves and notes of honeyed ginger tingle into the finish.

[172]
With a bit of air, the wine reveals lovely flavours of quince and apricot, shot through with lime zest and flinty mineral notes. The texture initially seems austere, almost tannic, but in time this iconic wine reveals its grandeur, confirming its status as one of Burgundy's great whites.

[173]
Brilliant and soaring with rounded beauty, lemon meringue pie has rich, honeyed notes of peach and grilled pineapple. There is bountiful depth and complexity on the nose. The palate is just as enticing, mineral saline notes mingle with deep ripe mangoes, peach ring candies and a stunningly fresh green mangoes finishing with sweet lemon curd.

[174]
Lemony, fresh, and good, the white Morgeot from Marc-Antonin Blain is lively and clean, with forward citrus fruit on the attack and crisp acidity to drive the length on the palate.

[175]
Appealing, with white peach, poached pear and subtle oak. Layered texture, vibrant acidity and savoury cedar notes lead to a long, mineral finish with delicate stone fruit, brioche and spice.

[176]
Aromatically complex, even brushing against an intriguing kerosene edge, with wet rocks, toast and honey mingling together. The palate is rich and intense but beautifully controlled. There's a striking balance between depth, spicy freshness and mineral tension that keeps everything humming along. The finish simply keeps going – long, layered and satisfying.

[177]
The nose shows a slightly caramelised and toasted character, beautifully offset by glorious citrus lift – notes of toast, cedar, cinnamon, lemon balm and lemongrass. On the palate, it's zingy and upfront, impressively alive with a shot of rich, almost sweet-and-sour lemon juice alongside crisp green apple. There's still noticeable richness and sweetness to the fruit, giving roundness and openness, yet it remains characterful and balanced. Packed with flavour and intensity, it finishes long, cool, salty and spiced – great harmony throughout.

[178]
Lean, tart fruit and minerality, plus a faint nose of flint, characteristic of Chablis. High acid to cleanse your palate.

[179]
Lemon balm and ripe Mirabelle plum cast a fruity, aromatic charm on the nose, presenting an absolutely streamlined, citric, bright palate of immense freshness. Total verve, great, tingling, electric concentration. Completely clear-cut, precise, vivid and so long. Aromatic and lifted to the end.

[180]
Great ocean-inspired aromatics of a salty sea breeze and briny sea shells frame a light, smoky lemon. Salted lemon peel flavours bring an immediacy to the minerality that streaks across layered notes of lemon curd, lemon beebrush and subdued honeyed ginger.

[181]
It is a fresh, balanced wine. It offers a medium-bodied Chardonnay with vibrant minerality. Bright aromas of lime, lemon, and honeysuckle open in the glass, while the palate brings layers of candied ginger and a subtle creaminess reminiscent of frangipane, with a long and refreshingly citrusy finish.

[182]
Has a lovely purity of ripe apple and apricot fruit aromas, with an edge of exotic spices and marzipan. The texture is gratifyingly rich but not heavy. It is still a magnificent wine. Cellar ideally for at least five years and enjoy it over the next 20.

[183]
Salty, perfumed, citrusy, and round, with a fleshy fullness. Notes of juicy, sweet apples and lemon tartlets fill out the mid-palate while the high acidity weaves through seamlessly, keeping everything lifted and layered.

[184]
Beautiful and clean; fresh and slightly creamy. Lemon pith, salt-crusted spring florals, almonds and a hint of marzipan on the nose. Crystalline and pure; a wine of elegance. Subtle flint and reduction; the savoury tones are not overt, with hints of curry leaf. A long line of persistence with fine, bright acidity. Wine that hums; seemingly ethereal but tethered with phenolics and grip. Saltbush and a hint of eucalyptus. Quivers in mouth; electric and joyful.

[185]
A restrained, focussed nose of pink grapefruit and buttery notes, with flowery hints and stony minerality in depth, is held together by zesty acidity tightly wound with fruit concentration and a toasty finish. A Chassagne-like Chardonnay full of tension and complexity.

[186]
There is an exquisite wine with pronounced aromas of lime zest, green apple and ripe nectarine with a strong, saline mineral undercurrent and hints of flowers and spice. The texture balances thrilling tension with a creamy depth of flavour.

[187]
Aromas of ripe mangoes, sweet peaches and lemon meringue attest to the depth achievable with this wine. Rich and full with lemon cream, toasted hazelnuts and fleshy notes of papaya, this wine balances that fruit with precise and focused minerality and acidity.

[188]
An intensely complex wine, fragrant with ripe quince and pear aromas; touched with spice, smoky reduction and saline, mineral notes. The texture is dense and waxy, with abundant extract and impressive length. It's a powerful wine that should continue to improve for decades.

[189]
Subtle and reserved, with lovely purity and poise. Delicate cedar, nutty depth and layers of fresh, textural flavours. Savoury and mealy, with restrained oak, bright acidity and a long, refined finish.

[190]
A roundness on the nose, it offers honeyed peach flesh, honeysuckle aromas, and white elderflower notes. There is a fleshy depth of peach and apricots on the palate, lemon pastry cream and a framing of lemon beeblam and sea salt.

[191]
There's a lean, crispness here, with smoky, chipped flint, green mangoes, and salt, along with juicy Meyer lemon pulp. Minty salt, white pepper all feature on a soaring, bright finish.

[192]
The wine shows great purity and drive. It walks a line between orchard fruit and savoury salinity. A nimble wine full of promise.

[193]
Smoky aromas, intense wafts of keylime, oyster shell and lemongrass. The palate pops with lemon and lime pulp, early-season peach fuzz, sea salt, and lemon drop candies.

[194]
Delicate and floral on the nose, with white wild flowers, Saline and taut with a nutty character that gives this wine depth, but it stays linear and lithe with lime zest and delicate and refined notes of lemon pastry cream, and a zesty saline finish.

[195]
Full of personality and interest, this new wine is no paint-by-numbers Chardonnay. The nose opens to toasty oak alongside lemon curd and cashew. Vanilla nougat and baked oat flavours blend with ripe lemon and flinty tones. Grapefruit and lime zest acidity keeps everything fresh and tight, and an appealing savoury edge lingers on the finish.

[196]
The nose offers inviting aromas of warm, toasted street nuts. Aromas of citrus, particularly Meyer lemon and red apples, round out the nose. On the palate, rich notes of toasted coconut and hazelnuts unfold, balanced by a laser-sharp acidic backbone that brings freshness and vibrancy. It is round and textured yet beautifully lifted.

[197]
Smoky, rich and generous. The generous flavours are underscored by a fine balancing acidity and gentle earthiness and minerality. Toasty, peachy flavours and a touch of spice.

[198]
From iron-rich vineyards cooled by sea breezes comes this delicious Chardonnay, packed with creamy apple, white peach and zesty citrus aromas and flavours. The palate is weighty, yet a seam of focused acidity and flinty minerality keeps things fresh.

[199]
Confectionery fruit with ripe apple. Straightforward palate with little complexity; clean and easy. Juicy with a rounded finish.

[200]
Absolutely delicious ripe apple, honey and toast lead to a smooth yet energetic palate, layering apricot, lemon and gentle vanilla; wonderfully long with a lingering, hauntingly elegant finish.

