WHITE — Cluster 2: Vibrant, tropical-citrus whites with herbal freshness
869 wines total | 200 sampled
============================================================

[1]
Soft peach, mango and hints of ripe green fruits rise from the glass, while the intense and flinty core is wrapped in layers of generous tropical flavours. Smoky and creamy touches lurk in the background. Fresh, indulgent and stylish.

[2]
Ripe and supple, this substantial but balanced wine is still light on its feet. Full and juicy fruit flavours are balanced by excellent acidity, while the finish is long and ends on a pleasingly austere, mineral note.

[3]
Exceptionally fresh, with crunchy acidity and a deep mid-palate concentration of lime and lemon zest. It shows impressive staying power through the chalky, mineral-driven, spicy finish, layering in real verve and energy.

[4]
With no lees stirring or oak influence, it remains remarkably layered, showing expressive citrus and orchard fruit with immense salinity. It's like sipping the salted rim of a mojito—fresh, lively, zesty—layered with orange oil, lemon, orchard fruit, and even a suggestion of apricot.

[5]
This is the right side of overt, with forward passion fruit, pink grapefruit and juicy stone fruit flavours and lime juice acidity.

[6]
Fruit-centric aromas of fresh gooseberry and pineapple, plus wild basil and silty mineral soil undertones. Just dry on the palate with the core of fruit driving the flavours: pineapple and apple, lemon and gooseberry. Plenty of refreshing acidity with a light saline edge. Crisp, refreshing and balanced.

[7]
Guava, mango, and passion fruit meet a wave of sea-spray minerality, with fantastic linear acidity running straight through the core. The wine carries delicate floral qualities, hints of mountain grass, and a stony minerality that adds layers and nuance. Medium-bodied with magical, zesty energy that brings perfect harmony to the ripe tropical fruit.

[8]
Refreshing nose of passion fruit, white peach, newly-cut grass and asparagus, in addition to a crisp and saline palate of citrus, green apple and herbs, followed by white pepper spiced finish.

[9]
This Sauvignon Blanc is a tropical fruit bomb. Bold and bright passionfruit and mango notes on the nose really reveal this wine's tropical characteristics. Pineapple and waxy lemons explode in the mouth, with a tiny hint of blackcurrant leaf coming through. It's full and concentrated but still has freshness.

[10]
This Sauvignon Blanc is a wonderfully lean and linear wine, offering a range of flinty mineral notes, citrus and tropical fruit, from lemon and lime to mango and apricot. The fruit shows real density on the mid-palate, with impressive staying power, while a firm spine of crunchy acidity keeps everything light, bright, and refreshing.

[11]
Pungent and forward on the nose, with tropical notes of lychee. The palate is full and fleshy, balanced by vibrant acidity. Subtle nuances of oak in the background. A complex and intriguing wine.

[12]
Slowly revealing its notes of gooseberry, white peach and pear. The structure is fairly dense on the palate, and perhaps lacks some elegance, but it's straight and mineral, with lemon rind bitterness coming in on the finish, and endlessly long acidity.

[13]
At eight years' old, this has a lovely nose of asparagus, rich caramel, nougat and passionfruit. Flavours of citrus, dried herb and black pepper are followed by a slightly dry, astringent finish. It's quite a spicy style, less tropical than the 2018, a savoury expression with mouthwatering, steely acidity.

[14]
Grassy and leafy, with clean passion fruit and subtle peach. Zesty acidity and a soft oak texture create a balanced, creamy finish.

[15]
Concentrated and rich with salted lemon peel, grapefruit pith and chipped flint minerality on the palate.

[16]
Light and fruit-driven, with a touch of minerality, this has a distinct passion fruit character and delicious texture. Smooth and highly gulpable. Fresh and lemony on the finish.

[17]
Although initially restrained, with some air the fruit bursts forth, showing shining lemons dripping with honey, a still life painting of bright pure fruit. There's huge concentration here, weight and width in the mouth, and it's brimming with a silent energy. It's both electric, and soft and chalky, with such a long finish stretching pleasurably into the distance.

[18]
A restrained, supple style, and very subtly oaked, with riper Sauvignon characters of honeydew melon, pineapple and passion fruit.

[19]
Softly aromatic, with notes of pineapple, gooseberry and passionfruit. The palate is tangy, with a soft silky feel. It's simple and fruity and although the acidity is fairly low, there's just enough freshness to encourage another glass.

[20]
Sauvignon Blanc brings racy acidity, while Petit Manseng leans on its roundness and weight. It has notes of dried pineapple, tarragon, and Moroccan-preserved lemon. The finish is long, with a tidy conclusion.

[21]
An intense burst of lime, elderflower, grilled lemon and pineapple, plus wet river stones on a hot, sunny day. The palate is textural and pithy, peppery almost, built on taut phenolics, with a touch of savoury oxidation, then a long, saline finish. This is an intriguingly different view of Marlborough Sauvignon Blanc.

[22]
Crisp and lively, a great burst of citrus fruit and crisp apple before softening and expanding. Lively and clean, so easy to drink this with freshness and zestiness. Mango, pineapple and peach. Clarity of this expression.

[23]
Boldly aromatic, with citrus oil and kumquat, layered with bright, savoury notes of tarragon, spearmint, and sage. The palate shows excellent mid-palate depth and fruit viscosity, beautifully balanced by grip and tension. A candied saline-mineral quality threads through the mid-palate, lingering with honeycomb, pressed flowers, and chamomile. So fresh and weighty, yet remarkably light on its feet.

[24]
This fragrant wine has aromas of white flowers, nettles, white pepper and a touch of smokiness. The mouth initially feels smooth, until the zingy acidity explodes onto the palate with a delicious salinity. Bright, juicy and open, with yellow peach and apricot flavours all balanced by the freshness. Generous, bright and expressive, with pure fruit and a sense of joie de vivre.

[25]
Aromas of peach, saline and a herbaceous Sauvignon Blanc-like note are invigorating. The wine's lemon peel, orange zest and juniper berry flavours are like sipping a gin and tonic. While its acidity is tangy enough, the wine possesses a surprisingly rich mouthfeel.

[26]
An alluring nose of lemon and lime with a touch of grapefruit, a kiss of Melon de Bourgogne, and a hint of vanilla. The palate builds with a creamy texture and an exotic richness—candied ginger and lemon oil coat the palate, lifted by tangerine zest and a vibrant saline-acid tension.

[27]
A California expression of Albariño that opens with lime zest, stone fruit, and a delicate floral elderflower note. The palate leans straightforward and ripe, showing juicy fruit at the core. A noticeable phenolic bitterness adds grip through the finish, lending structure to an otherwise easygoing style.

[28]
The wine shows a clear textural departure, offering greater richness and mid-palate weight, while retaining classic lime and evolving lemon-zest notes, accented by white flowers, apple, and pear, with a hint of pithy grapefruit and a characteristic saline minerality that carries through the long, medium-bodied finish.

[29]
Pure Sauvignon Blanc aromas – green apple and elderflower. Bright and firm on the palate, lifted and pure. Great balance of acidity and crisp orchard fruits. Balanced and all in one line. Not overly complex but deep, juicy finish that is so appealing.

[30]
Pleasant aromas of white peach, gooseberry and grass are joined by a hint of orange rind. The palate is bright and zesty, with lemon and lime flecks alongside good acidity, gooseberry notes and herbal tones.

[31]
Richly aromatic, with notes of blackcurrant leaf, passion fruit and citrus, smoky and with a good weight. Impressive concentration and fruit purity.

[32]
Crisp green apple, and lively gooseberry with elderflower florality. Peach, passionfruit and citrus. Clean and focused, this has drive from the start - succulent and mouth watering with hints of tropical fruit balanced by stone fruit and then salty, bitter lemon and orange touches on the finish. Pineapple - lively, and bright but also not too sharp at all. Great fat and acidity. Feels more delicate, yet it retains the complexity and nuance. Crisp and refreshing but with a lively character. Easy to drink.

[33]
Crisp Sauvignon with plenty of varietal typicity. Zingy grapefruit, lime and gooseberry aromas. Racy acidity with mouthwatering gooseberry and citrus fruit, plus a creaminess to the texture. Lingering, crisp citrus finish.

[34]
Very fresh and enjoyable, with playful notes of lime zest, white grapefruit and gooseberry. A lovely floral touch too. Great drive, with zesty acidity and an elegant mineral aspect.

[35]
Pungent aromas of gooseberries and tomato leaf continue on the fresh, grassy palate, whose acidity is more mellow than you'd expect given the tart, zingy flavours. Ripe and juicy with a long lemon zest finish.

[36]
Aromas of salty sea air, lemon verbena and fresh ginger. Thirst-slaking minerality marks the palate with a touch of salted lemon peel and briny oyster shells.

[37]
Delicate, pure and enticing bouquet of citrus blossoms, apple, minerals, autolysis notes and gentle wood spice suggestions. Equally layered and long on the palate, where the flavours mirror the nose and develop more complexity as the wine relaxes in the glass. Pure fruited with indulgent textures and flavours.

[38]
The 2023 is particularly dynamic, showing riper orchard fruit than the 2022, with a subtle bite of white peach, that wonderful squeeze of lemon and lime, and lime-bright acidity. There's a touch of sea spray, stony minerality and saline lift on the lengthy, crunchy and zesty medium-bodied finish.

[39]
There is a lick of salinity to it, and a lifted grapefruit citrus crispness despite the high alcohol.

[40]
Delicate aromatics of orchard fruits and tropical fruit, like white peach and white flowers, mingle with slivered almonds and a hint of sea spray minerality. What a pleasure-packed wine, so vivid with incredible tension, bright acidity, and a compellingly rich texture. Very long, layered, and generous.

[41]
Classic grassy, green and herbal tones, with some menthol notes, a hint of kaffir lime leaves and a lime cordial finish. Passion fruit freshness and acidity. Varietal typicity.

[42]
Overt, forward tutti-frutti aromas continue on the round palate, where good concentration of ripe passion fruit is enlivened by bright acidity.

[43]
Pale lemon, dry, gooseberry mineral lime fruit with some rather lovely concentrated dark fruit and lime peel acidity.

[44]
It immediately impresses with its luxurious richness and oily texture, offering far more opulence than the Napa Sauvignon Blanc while maintaining a fresh, juicy acidity at its core. This is a riper style in 2023, leading with pineapple and dried mango notes, and showing medium-bodied richness with hints of dried banana. Despite all the ripeness and fruit weight, there's a real linearity in this vintage—a focused, expressive tension that lifts the wine.

[45]
Intense aromas of tinned peach, yellow plum and cream. Savoury waxiness with texture and weight. Creamy and woody then slightly earthy flavours of apricot skin, banana peel and bruised apple lead to a long and fresh finish.

[46]
Fragrant guava, passion fruit, seagrass, and smoky minerality lift from the glass, complemented by a savoury, just-picked pop of tarragon. Medium-bodied, with plump, juicy fruit on the palate, the wine is framed by a firm spine of racy acidity and finishes long on a chalky, mineral note. That palate-coating tropical fruit character lingers well beyond the saline-mineral thread's graceful resolution.

[47]
Tropical fruit dominates the nose, with notes of fresh pineapple, banana, and guava, underpinned by a vanilla-scented warmth. The palate bursts with juicy mango and underripe banana, balanced by just enough acidity to retain freshness and poise.

[48]
Aromatic nose of leafy gooseberry and lime. Waxy character to the silky palate; delicate and creamy with layers of citrus, lime Starburst, grapefruit and herbs, plus a crisp, snappy green finish.

[49]
A varietal and floral nose with touches of mandarin, honeysuckle, grapefruit and wet stone minerality. Vibrant on the palate with tension, fine acidity and creamy vanilla edges which keeps it refreshing and textured.

[50]
Generous pineapple and passion fruit with floral hints, a finely grained texture and a glistening acid freshness.

[51]
Airy aromas of dried white flowers, sea salt, mandarin pith, and a note of salted lemon wedge. The palate is a touch austere, as a crushed chalk mouthfeel frames salty lemons, smoky flint and a ripe macerated nectarine note.

[52]
Vivacious and inviting aromas of green peas, passion fruit, hay, pink grapefruit, tropical fruits, white pepper and floral notes. The wine is dry, displays a creamy texture and a wonderful persistent finish, with wonderful freshness and balanced exuberant flavours.

[53]
It has more lime and lime pitch character than you might expect, but that works well here in combination with the nettle and gooseberry hints, and the dry but rounded flavour profile.

[54]
This is classic Marlborough Sauvignon Blanc, but with added richness and weight from fermentation in French oak. It's quite an exotic, tropical style with grapefruit citrus notes, as opposed to the greener, more herbaceous, pyrazine style of some Marlborough Sauvignons.

[55]
An unusually complex, unoaked Cape Sauvignon with delectably full-textured guava, blackcurrant and pithy grapefruit, all lifted and shaped by coursing, limey acidity.

[56]
Sprightly and fresh, there is nevertheless a generosity of soft, ripe peach and apricot stone fruit flavours, slightly honeyed, and golden barley sugar notes.

[57]
Classic Marlborough passion fruit, pink grapefruit and grassy herbal freshness, the palate ripeness balanced by zesty acidity.

[58]
This one leans into the concentrated and almost-opulent style, rich with lime cordial and some exotic pineapple fruit, but also buoyed by delicate hawthorn blossom and gooseberry. It's powerful and quite showy, but it's nonetheless refined and elegant in its own right, and so silky in texture.

[59]
Already drinking beautifully with a forward, fruity and fleshy style, there is so much concentration on the palate that it would be a shame not to let this develop for several years. The warmth on the palate is cut by the fresh acidity. Long and lingering finish.

[60]
On the nose, it's open and fruit-forward, with bright citrusy notes. The highly mineral palate has generous, silky fruit that is mouthcoating yet zesty and fresh. The savoury minerality carries through to the long finish. Showing some evolving complexity, this is in a really good place right now, but could keep a few more years.

[61]
One for the hardcore NZ Sauvignon fans, this explodes with tropical aromas of guava, mango, lime and pineapple. Top notes of freshly cut grass and gooseberry, plus lemony acidity, bring refreshment. The memory of fresh pineapple stays etched on the palate.

[62]
Although fully mature, this is still extremely enjoyable with a rich core of honey, lemon, lime and buttery notes although with a calm acidity that keeps it lifted. Mouthfilling with a soft texture and long finish.

[63]
Bursting from the glass with white flowers, jasmine and lime blossom, alongside lemon–lime citrus, crunchy pear and apple. It carries scintillating acid tension through a stony, mineral finish. Long and lean, yet with pleasing mid-palate weight and depth, and plenty of tension on the lasting finish.

[64]
It's a good alternative. Ripe and juicy with citrus and passion fruit flavours, but not too pungent.

[65]
Citrus fruit; lemon, and lime with tropical fruits; pineapple and mango are confirmed both on the nose and the palate. Medium plus acidity and a persistent finish.

[66]
Ripe lemon, lime and grapefruit aromas give way to a grassy, fresh herb undertone. The vibrant, zesty palate boasts a creamy texture, a touch of spice and lovely minerality through the lively finish.

[67]
Cool citrus notes of lemon-thyme intertwine with crushed rock minerality, crushed almond, and honeycomb. Subtle chamomile, apple, and pear add further depth. Lovely, bright, and laser-focused.

[68]
Plenty of body and richness with a forward aromatic profile of tropical ripe pineapple, guava and a brilliant citrus note. The palate is crisp and bright, with dollops of fruit to be easily enjoyed. Rich grilled pineapple, juicy Meyer lemon pulp and a smoky grilled citrus character finish with plenty of thirst-slaking acidity and a bright streak of saline minerality.

[69]
Peach, pear, green apple with some white floral scents and hints of tropicality. Fresh and fruity, this packs a punch of flavour straight away - at first honeyed and almost thick before the Sauvignon kicks in with tightness and direction. Lemon, crisp apple and some peach. As it warms it becomes more pear and peach with juiciness and some flesh. Multifaceted and not just built on the acidity and tension although this also has it. Balanced and finishes well.

[70]
Concentrated, direct and mineral, with a distinct white-pepper character. Elegant and precise, with some struck-match on the nose.

[71]
An ashy smokiness to citrus aromas; the palate seduces with its fresh lemon, pink grapefruit, white peach and hint of florality before a crisp, clean, mineral finish.

[72]
Appealing white peaches, green apple and pineapple on the nose, which translates seamlessly onto the palate. The sweet ripe fruit is tinged with a dry, chalky texture and a bitter gooseberry finish.

[73]
This aromatic wine leaps from the glass with intense gravel, crushed rock, and seashell minerality. Its bright, high-energy profile is defined by striking minerality, but it builds classic mid-Napa richness on the palate. Tropical fruit notes emerge, layered with elegant coriander cream, before finishing with extreme tension, energy, and vibrancy.

[74]
This offers good bang for your buck, with intensity of fruit flavour, freshness and a harmonious balance. The wine displays the green pea and gooseberry notes that you associate with Sauvignon Blanc, and a Semillon pepperiness. It's zingy and juicy with racy acidity, and has an appealing lightness of touch.

[75]
Lime-bright nose and lifted herbal tones tinged with zest and fennel. Salty and mineral on the citrus-driven palate, building with orchard-fruit richness through the light- to medium-bodied finish.

[76]
Soaring minerality and fresh citrus mark the aromas. Fresh ginger, lime zest and smoky chipped flint. The palate shows lean initially, but as it opens, it offers a wonderful texture. Flesh stone fruits and grilled pineapple offer a fruity intensity balanced by a stony mineral linearity right through the finish.

[77]
This Sauvignon Blanc is more Old World than New World in style, with a restrained grassiness and some weighty gooseberry fruit in the mouth, with herby notes and a twist of lime blossom on the finish.

[78]
This Sauvignon Blanc reflects complexity and freshness. Tart aromas of starfruit and green mango emerge, along with delicate floral notes. The medium-bodied palate is softly textured, with flavours of nectarine, salty citrus, and crushed rock, finishing clean.

[79]
A smoky, fresh, tightly wound wine with mouthwateringly tense, mineral fruit. The flint gives a stern firmness to the wine, which is deeply savoury. The acidity is high but ripe, and the wine successfully manages to achieve the magical balance of power and density without weight.

[80]
It's juicy and elegant, with pungent blackcurrant leaf, nettle and mineral notes and a ripe melon and passion fruit finish.

[81]
This Chenin Blanc has ripe tropical aromatics met with intense Meyer lemon pulp and white florals. The palate is intensely fruited with pineapple, green mangoes and ripe guava flavours.

[82]
A jumble of ripe stone, orchard and tropical fruit flavours flood the mid-weight palate, supported by quenching citrus acidity, chalky tannins and delicate oak spicing.

[83]
Aromatically subtle, the palate is deliciously rich and pulsating with flavours of confit lemon, mango, melon and pineapple, enhanced by umami notes of honeyed mushrooms and soy sauce. Combining sweet peachy richness with savoury intrigue.

[84]
The flinty nose shows evidence of ageing in oak, while on the palate it is a serious, ageworthy wine of power and concentration. Juicy, rich and mineral with a long finish.

[85]
Cloudy pale yellow in the glass, this Sauvignon-dominant blend opens with an aromatic profile of yellow apple, white flowers, orange blossom, and citrus zest. The palate is soft and rounded, with moderate acidity supporting ripe orchard fruits and delicate floral tones. Subtle wood influence adds a gentle creaminess and spice, without dominating the fruit. This is a charming and balanced wine with good ripeness and a moderate finish.

[86]
Aromatic nose with grassy notes, punchy gooseberry followed by hints of green tea, gunpowder and lemongrass. Highly distinctive with passion fruit flavours on the palate and a lengthy, austere finish.

[87]
Grassy and herbal aromatics, really varietal. Expressive and open. Juicy and clean, lovely lemon balm and orange bite to the fruit with some gooseberry elements too. A little slim on the finish but there's a juicy core of lemon, lime, peach flesh and some apricot.

[88]
Light and fresh with notes of grapefruit, gooseberry and slightly more herbaceous characters and less concentration than the more site-specific cuvées. It's driven by fruit and the structure is open, not tightly knit. Simple yet no less delicious.

[89]
Sauvignon-esque with tropical, grassy fruit, gooseberry and asparagus. Fruity, clean and zesty with mellow yellow notes, a plump, soft palate and a steely, satisfying finish.

[90]
Bright, fresh, open and peach-scented. A fruit-driven style with savoury mineral tension on the finish. Best enjoyed in its youthful, exuberant fruitiness, this is a stylish, honest wine.

[91]
Herbal and lemony in aroma, with a crisp apple and chalk character in the mouth.

[92]
Oyster shell, lime, citrus and grapefruit zest lead the way, with bracing acidity that cleanses the palate and leaves a trail of chalky minerality and lingering notes of pressed wildflowers and crushed Marcona almonds.

[93]
It offers vivid notes of lime and grapefruit zest, orange oil, and chalky minerals. Medium-bodied on the palate, with zesty citrus fruit and soaring acid tension that drives a focused, energetic finish.

[94]
The fruit is more fleshy, showing as stone fruit along the yellow spectrum, with a smoky hint. The finish is pure and tingly with fresh lemons. A light, approachable wine, with great purity and crystalline fruit.

[95]
This is a Sauvignon Blanc. Jasmine, sweet peach and lychee reveal more tropical fruits and grapey perfume. Green apple and lemongrass on a fresh palate, pretty and delightful.

[96]
This elegant expression shows a lovely purity of gooseberry, blackcurrant leaf and lime fruit, with added weight.

[97]
There is a custard-like density on the palate driven by the concentrated oils of kumquat and tropical orange peel, with a fresh, herbal lift that slices right through the initial richness.

[98]
Elegant and subtle aromas of elderflower, stone fruits, passion fruit, pears and lemongrass. On the palate it is sophisticated and harmonious, with balancing freshness.

[99]
Pungent green bell pepper, lemon and lime aromas. Vibrant, freshly-cut-lemon acidity underpins a full-throttle palate of tart lime, grapefruit, gooseberry and green pepper, plus a crisp, fruity finish.

[100]
Elegant apple, lime and herbal aromas lead to a youthful, expressive palate of intense lemon, crisp green apple, mango, fine herbs and fresh grapefruit. Vibrant and moreish.

[101]
Rich and unctuous, beautifully balanced. On the nose, rich grilled pineapple and juicy Meyer lemon pulp give way to streaks of wet slate and sea salt. Mouthfuls of lemon curd, Hawaiian papaya and salted lemon wedge. There is an energetic, taut minerality that frames these succulent, juicy fruits.

[102]
The wine absolutely screams Sauvignon Blanc typicity for the vintage. There's a hint of honeycomb, white flowers, and even sea grass. It shows good weight and tension, carried by bright, lemony acidity.

[103]
A classically styled Sauvignon Blanc with a real hit of bracing grapefruit acidity, lemon sherbet zing and appealing green notes of fennel, lime and blackcurrant leaf.

[104]
It has all the classic varietal characters fans of the style are looking for – ripe passion fruit flavours and tangy gooseberry acidity. A well made and tasty wine.

[105]
A viscous quality that settles beautifully on the mid-palate, with a rich baking-spice character balanced by vibrant, lime-bright acidity. It lingers with subtle crushed Marcona almond nuances.

[106]
A distinctive and textural expression of Sancerre, less aromatic than the typical character of the appellation, with a wild yeastiness overlaying the varietal Sauvignon Blanc character and acidity. This was a very ripe vintage and this has weight and power.

[107]
A golden colour in the glass, incredible aromatics, almost like a Sauternes freshly squeezed orange, honey and hazelnuts with lemon juice and pith. Juicy and weighty, the Semillon adds a texture and weight to the palate while the Gris adds florality and the Sauvignon Blanc gives a mouthwatering element. This really has a floral edge, violets and creaminess and then hint of toast and nuts on the finish. Ends clean.

[108]
Full of bold flavour; a delicious textural fruit bomb. It has pineapple, velvety nectarine fuzz, orange spice, boxwoods, and white pepper. Juicy, mouthwatering acidity helps solidify its extreme drinkability.

[109]
Classic aromas of passionfruit, mango and kiwi continue on the tropical palate, which is lifted by a lively seam of tangy gooseberry acidity.

[110]
Fantastic, vibrant nose of cut grass, passion fruit and grapefruit. Exuberant on the palate with racy acidity, bone-dry structure and a clean, crisp finish.

[111]
Peach, pear and creamy apple on the nose. Soft and gentle, not as acidic as I was expecting, much more calm and controlled still with freshness and juicy pear and apple fruit with a vein of minerality giving focus to the finish. Feels nicely structured and wide with enough depth and energy to be filling and lively enough. Ready to drink with some stone, flint freshness on the finish.

[112]
The nose shows a sunny mix of grapefruit and a pungent medley of Mediterranean herbs. Cool and crisp with a decent dose of salinity right from the start, the palate opens up to reveal tangy citrus, melon and peach fruit and winds down with a fresh line of acidity and mineral-driven character.

[113]
A Vin de France with subtle floral aromatics lifted by a smoky lemon note and a streak of wet slate. The palate is lean and bright, with flashes of grilled lemon peel, smoky flint, and notes of cut grass. The finish is lifted by bright acidity and a touch of white pepper.

[114]
Light and lively, delivering savoury freshness. Its aromatics include white wildflowers, a salty ocean breeze, and a concentrated citrus note. The palate offers a salted lemon wedge, white pepper, and a lingering, long finish of dried mountain herbs.

[115]
An astute and lively Sauvignon Blanc. Aromas of beeswax, yellow flower pollen and green mango freshness linger and lead to a palate of fruity richness, with peaches and apricots vying for attention alongside honeyed ginger.

[116]
Pale lemon, bursting with exotic spice, ginger, and tropical nuances. High acidity gives this full-bodied white a tense, electric feel, while the texture is firm and grippy. A bold and characterful expression of Sauvignon Gris, finishing lemony and long.

[117]
Caillottes is enticing in its preserved lemon citrussy salinity, showing notes of wild flowers, meadow herbs and crushed chalk. The palate is dense and weighty with huge concentration, and then it tapers out to a pleasant bitter fruit skin finish.

[118]
This is a highly expressive Sauvignon Blanc with a beautiful core of succulent, silky and satiny fruit, redolent of lemon and lush orchard tones. A wonderful mineral expression frames the palate, juicy and mouth-watering, threading through a long finish lifted by a pop of sea salt and a subtle hint of vanilla.

[119]
Notes of wet stone, crushed chalk, and petrichor are met with candied ginger. The palate is fleshy yet vibrant. Striking flavours of lemon creme, honeyed pear, melon and subtle notes of oak.

[120]
Aromatics of delicate white flowers, apricot skin and petrichor. The palate is layered, elegant and fresh. Flavours of tangy lemon cream, fresh-cut apricot, a touch of smoky flint and almond skin mark a palate with nuance and balance.

[121]
There's a delicious unctuosity to this Sauvignon from Casablanca Valley as it glides through the palate. Lime zest, linden, verbena and lemongrass hover over passionfruit, melon and ripe pear. The residual sugar adds welcome richness and balances the zesty acid.

[122]
Pure, focused and complex bouquet of white-fleshed orchard fruits, ripe citrus, herbs, spicy minerals and a fine lees layer. Tense, youthful and dry on the palate with flavours of sweet citrus, green apple and pear. Persistent fresh herb, lees and stony mineral notes are carried through by the acidity.

[123]
Apple, pineapple, mango, apricot, pear, blossom, clean and flinty aromas. Fresh and bright, forward, well built - so energetic and vibrant but controlled, not too much acidity or sharpness. Great aromatic complexity as well as a comforting juiciness with depth as well as vibrancy with saline, ginger, lemon balm and pineapple flavours. Finishes so long with bitter orange and lemon, but also a cool chalkiness that lingers.

[124]
Fruit gives restraint and vibrancy to the textured palate of citrus peel, herbs and stony minerals.

[125]
Clean gooseberry aromas with exotic notes of mandarin and papaya, though a slightly cooked fruit aspect beneath. Full, with a subtle but distinctive savoury edge of forest floor earthiness. Good length, lightly honeyed on the back of the finish, creamy texture too. A good, moreish style.

[126]
Citrusy nose of lemon and grapefruit, with passion fruit notes as well. The palate is very ripe, it's a full-throttle style that shows citrus and floral fruit combined with a firm, flinty, textured complexity. Good concentration and lovely freshness. A fascinating wine of character that will benefit from a few years in bottle.

[127]
All the hallmark mango and peach but lighter on its feet than most. An exotic touch of passion fruit combines with rich crème caramel to create a seductive, layered palate. Woody spice and hints of church incense, while the acidity is racy for a wine this sweet. Elegant and refreshing.

[128]
Lemon curd character and intensity and breadth and depth with a great freshness, crushed cork character that is utterly reviving, with a subtle beeswax quality and a touch of fruit notes.

[129]
The wine opens with notes of crushed Marcona almonds, citrus, and orchard fruit, carried by a suave texture and a bright, fruit-driven finish that lingers pleasantly on the palate.

[130]
Powerful and savoury, delivering scents of violets, flint and smoke; rich and full with a massive mineral tension and visceral acidity. Direct and intense, hugely enjoyable, this is a chiselled, distinctive wine of power and class.

[131]
Aromatic nose of green peas, asparagus and green apple, with a hint of passion fruit. Clean and mineral on the palate with fragrant herbs such as rosemary and mint, in addition to fruity notes of citrus and crunchy green apple. Cleansing and salivating.

[132]
An impressive Sauvignon Blanc blended with 25% Semillon. It has radiant aromatics, candied ginger, lemon oil and wonderful ocean air salinity. The palate is concentrated with a mineral intensity that carries the salted lemon wedge and piquant Meyer lemon pulp. Crushed river rock and briny oyster shells make a lively showing at the finish.

[133]
This is a ripe, full-bodied, voluminous wine of enormous appeal. With nectarine fruit and bright minerality, its lush appeal and sensual breadth are tempered by a fine, chalky texture and a long, citrussy finish.

[134]
Pronounced aromas of gooseberry, passion fruit and flinty stone. Crisp, light-bodied and refreshing, with vibrant citrus on the palate.

[135]
A bright, energetic, and mineral-driven Sauvignon Blanc with terrific mid-palate weight to balance its tension and precision. Aromas of citrus and orchard fruit mingle with delicate white floral notes. The palate shows succulent lime zest and saline acidity, with wet-stone mineral tension and perfectly pure orchard and stone fruit.

[136]
Notes of crushed slate, seaspray and lime skin offer nuance and complexity on the nose. The palate bursts with juicy fruits as papaya and guava flavours are cut through by juicy Meyer lemon pulp and a serious saline streak that braces the finish.

[137]
This release is zesty, refreshing, and immediately approachable. There is an overt tropical lift with perfumed florals, but the wine ultimately leans towards a crisp expression: clean acidity and citrus-driven aromatics. Notable intensity and concentration.

[138]
The nose is bright and citrusy, with honey and elderflower notes. On the palate, the fruit is pristine and refreshing, with pronounced minerality. Powerful and harmonious – one of those wines that has natural balance, with everything in place. Superbly refreshing on the finish.

[139]
The inviting nose has just a touch of fragrant oak, adding a lovely creaminess and perfume, with lemon and lime drops, pear flesh, and spring grass crushed underfoot. There's some nice waxiness on the palate, with lightly toasted, integrated oak. The texture is fine and detailed. Quenching salinity and green-olive brine, coriander stalk, lemongrass, glossy lemon pith and crushed minerality; it has great length, chewy phenolics and crunchy acid.

[140]
Grassy and floral notes on the nose, and very attractive primary fruit on the palate. Concentrated, juicy and fresh, this is a clean and zippy wine where pure, grassy Sauvignon is rounded by ageing in oak. There is an interesting chalky texture here and an intensity that builds in the mouth to a mouthwatering finish.

[141]
Super-fresh, with passion fruit, grass and hints of white peach. Appealing and zesty, balanced and brimming with youthful energy. Sound Sauvignon at a good price.

[142]
The McGinley Sauvignon Blanc is a creamy and appetising expression of the varietal. It embodies the salty minerality of ocean-kissed Santa Barbara, offering a creamier palate feel than most Northern California Sauvignon Blancs. There's a richness to the fruit, reminiscent of fleshy, juicy peach or apricot, balanced by pithy lime and brisk acidity, with further nuances of lime blossoms, slivered almonds, and a kiss of oak. Mineral tension runs throughout, leading to a nice, long finish.

[143]
Really varietal apple and peas, elderflower but also with lots of white pear aromatics too. Clean, crisp and sapid. Bright and zesty, relatively sleek and lightweight, but a nice shot of citrus juice with salty edges. Mouthwatering acidity makes this easy to enjoy.

[144]
Varietal nose, fully Sauvignon Blanc with green apple, elderflower and some lemon balm touches. Racy and alive, lean and steely but with sweet lemon sherbet, ripe apple and even some pineapple as well as small touches of orange bitterness. Great energy and focus and enjoyable peach fleshiness too - this is a really good wine. Juicy and succulent, the ripe fruit suggests a warm vintage, but there's plenty of cool and fresh elements too with no underripe accents.

[145]
Bright, focused, and lifted, with fine acid tension and a fragrant and zesty squeeze of citrus. Orchard fruits of pear and green apple lead the way, followed by underripe tropical notes redolent of white peach and apricot. There is excellent fruit weight, balanced by restrained fruit sweetness, and the aromatics are especially inviting, echoing the palate with an added layer of subtle white floral character.

[146]
It opens with alluring aromas of crunchy orchard and stone fruits, accented by a hint of vanilla and crushed Marcona almonds. Medium-bodied on the palate, it features a racy spine of acidity, with pressed wildflowers adding depth and complexity to the lengthy, refreshing finish. It is a vibrant and layered wine.

[147]
The 2023 is open, rich and fruity, with concentration and density, vinous in the mouth. The combination of clay and limestone gives a wine of both power and elegance, with a long, textured finish.

[148]
Aromas of orange blossom, white florals and kaffir lime leaf rise above a core of prickly pear and star fruit. The palate is bright and punchy, marked by vibrant acidity and a saline edge that seems to carry the ocean through the finish.

[149]
Just gorgeous aromatics, gripping and arresting, with clear cut apricot and nectarine flesh on the nose. The kind of wine where you smell the texture before it gets anywhere near your mouth. With a beautifully smoky edge, this is juicy and well-balanced. Just the right amount of fleshy mouthfeel and knife-edge freshness. Concentrated with a ton of juice running through the palate.

[150]
Lively lemon and lime aromas, with hints of ripe gooseberry. Fruity palate: packed with creamy lime and gooseberry, balanced by a fresh streak of acidity, with palate-cleansing grapefruit pith notes on the finish.

[151]
Vibrant gooseberry and lime aromas. More gooseberries and ripe citrus on the palate with zingy acidity and a creamy edge.

[152]
This Sancerre has good typicity, depth and character, with mouthwatering acidity, lively lemon zesty flavours and a mineral, herby dimension to add complexity.

[153]
This wine shows wild white flowers and lemon oil. The palate shows real intensity. Intense notes of Meyer lemon pulp, savoury lemongrass, concentrated notes of crushed stone, and flint mingle with the saline oceanic signature. A brilliant mineral framing of delicious ripe fruits.

[154]
Very clean, bright, and beautifully textural, driven by pronounced minerality with pretty notes of white flowers, citrus, and orchard fruit. A lovely saline acidity brings tension and energy, carrying through a bright light- to medium-bodied finish.

[155]
Museion's Sauvignon Blanc is bright, vivid, and focused, with lovely depth of pure, clean flavours on both the nose and palate. Medium-bodied, it offers crisp, zesty grapefruit and saline-tinged acidity, while a host of creamy citrus fruits mingle with ripe orchard fruit, nuanced by honeycomb. The finish is long and refined, with hints of seagrass and flinty minerality.

[156]
Salty and loaded with crisp minerality. Crisp minerality dominates this wine, crushed stones, salted lemon wedge. Lime and lemon zest.

[157]
Has a juicy brightness and peachy fruit, with balanced, moderate acidity. A pure, ripe, rounded wine.

[158]
Varietal nose, green apple, elderflower, green peas, pear and acacia flower. Brilliant acidity, clean and crystalline, sherbet lemon and lime citrus gives a kick, with mouthwatering acidity and a salty touch to the finish. So clean and precise, really focussed and direct. Good movement from start to finish. Tension all the way through, the finish is great, salty and stony. Joyful, almost sweet and sour.

[159]
Fresh aromas of lime, grass and pineapple. Juicy citrus palate with great natural acidity and a stony mineral note. Finishes crisp with a subtle hint of creamy vanilla.

[160]
This is a bright, vivid expression that packs impressive flavour into a fairly light-coloured wine, driven by vibrant acidity and balanced by an aromatic panoply of white flowers, orange zest, kumquat, lemon peel, and yellow apple, with spicy ginger notes lingering on the lengthy finish.

[161]
Citrus-driven. Creamy gooseberry aromas, with passion fruit, lime and vibrant tropical hints. Fresh acidity and citrus fruit – lemon, lime, grapefruit – with a lemongrass note. Crisp and zesty, with a long lemon sherbet-like finish.

[162]
Its aromas are fresh and green, with elderflower, gooseberry and lemon the dominant characters. Tingling and slightly green acidity makes for a mouthwatering sip, with a lightweight finish. It's simple, but easy to drink.

[163]
Citrus-driven style showcasing lime blossom, lemongrass and pink grapefruit, with hints of fennel freshness and a river stone minerality.

[164]
The wine shows a wonderfully grippy texture with lifted aromatics of citrus and bright lemon fruit, layered with a pop of vanilla and delicate white jasmine notes. Tension carries the wine through the palate, finishing long with a gentle baking spice character.

[165]
Flinty reduction to the green-fruited aromas, a sense of smoke and brimstone followed by fresh green apple, gooseberry and lime. Great concentration and a very long, stony finish, there's a real finesse here. Lean and restrained.

[166]
A blend of Sauvignon Blanc grapes from the east and west sides of Seneca Lake. Zesty and refreshing with herbal aromatics and tropical fruits upheld by a backbone of citrus.

[167]
Elegant flavours of lime pith, gooseberries and green apple rind. Flows discreetly across the palate - refreshing, really easy-going.

[168]
The flavour profile is green (pyrazine) rather than tropical (thiol), with intense, vibrant notes of blackcurrant leaf and green pepper. An attractive textural quality.

[169]
Bright and expressive on the nose, fragrant peach and apple with a core of fresh acidity. There's tension keeping the grip and focus with mouthwatering appeal on the finish. Clean and sappy with a bitter lemon ending.

[170]
The wine offers lime blossom on the nose with subtle acacia-honey tones. Gooseberry and passion fruit dominate the core flavours, followed by lime citrus and a zesty jalapeño note. The texture carries added weight with a clean and steely finish thanks to cool-climate edge. Gentle secondary notes and added textural complexity.

[171]
Plenty of passion fruit on the nose, alongside zesty lime, grapefruit and gooseberry. More tropical notes on the palate, interwoven with bright layers of citrus, mineral tones and hints of stone fruit on the long finish, with properly zingy acidity throughout.

[172]
Lively and fresh, this bursts open with lots of freshly-picked peaches and hints of tropical and really quite juicy pineapple and mango with some bitter orange and grapefruit edges. Clean and nicely focussed. Easy to drink.

[173]
Fresh and fruit-driven, with pleasing aromatics of tropical fruits and ripe, juicy Meyer lemon pulp. The palate offers mouthfuls of juicy citrus, hints of grilled nectarine flesh and a streak of stony minerals carry the finish.

[174]
Bright and highly expressive, it bursts with pithy lime, lemon, citrus zest, lemon oil, delicate orange blossom and vibrant minerality. A firm spine of crunchy acidity provides exceptional integration and tension, while a wonderfully grippy texture builds through the finish, making this wine remarkably fresh and invigorating.

[175]
Ripe, pure, complex and developing, with a core of tropical and orchard fruits, a fine toasty leesy layer and enticing minerality. Lovely mealy, fine-textured mouthfeel, enhancing flavours of peach, apple and tropical fruits then herbs and leesy autolysis. Well made with a very lengthy finish.

[176]
A powerful and complex Bordeaux white made by blending Sémillon and Sauvignon Blanc. Flinty asparagus, gooseberry and nectarine on the nose, with magnificent smokiness on a savoury palate of crunchy green fruits and mushy peas. White spices and vanilla notes towards the finish. Deliciously long.

[177]
With the 2023 release, the coolness of the vintage shines through, giving the wine a vibrant, tension-filled core. As a result, the richness you might expect is less opulent, offering a more focused profile with added zest and brightness. Notes of soft field straw, honeysuckle, and grapefruit are expressive, complemented by a vein of saline minerality and a hint of candied pollen on the lengthy finish.

[178]
Floral and herbal aromas with a trace of lemony confectionery. A whisper of reduction. There's almost a note of Sauvignon Blanc. The palate is intense and dry, rich and more generous than some of its fellow young Semillons.

[179]
Passion fruit and mango with a hint of green herbs, seasoned with coconut and smoke. Crisp green apple, asparagus and limey acidity on the palate, with mouth-smacking buttery notes. Lime curd follows to a heart-warming ending.

[180]
Fantastic fresh white florals, sweet white peaches and an alluring note of candied citrus. The palate is crisp and the fruit centered flavour profile shows rich honeydew melon, juicy Meyer lemon pulp and a touch of ripe mandarin, all of this carried on a streaking saline minerality through the finish.

[181]
A fresh, crisp dry Sauvignon, with melon, lime and gooseberry character. Juicy and easy drinking.

[182]
Soft freshly cut grass and pyrazine notes from the Sauvignon, softened by a gentle lick of apricot.

[183]
Hyper fresh and open-hearted, showing racy green apple and white peach, fresh and tempting. Light notes of grass, tarragon and fine herbs.

[184]
Salty grapefruit and lime aromas lead to a concentrated palate driven by brisk acidity. Layers of lime pickle, preserved lemon and grapefruit zest, ending in a satisfying lick of salinity.

[185]
This is a grassy, crisp Sauvignon Blanc. Pronounced gooseberry and asparagus on the nose and palate, with green fruits throughout and fragrant herbs on the finish.

[186]
Aromatics of wild grasses and lime zest. The palate shows notes of saline ocean air, fruity apple skin and crushed sea shells.

[187]
Fresh grapefruit and white flowers lead, with a chamomile richness and creamy apple building the palate from medium- to full-bodied. There's superb, focused tension—linear, with charming acidity that carries a delicate, lacy quality. The finish is quite long and fruit-driven, with beautifully pressed floral and honeyed notes, underpinned by a subtle salinity.

[188]
Fresh and elegant gooseberry, lime and green pea notes, plus crisp acidity and a touch of creaminess. Super value for money!

[189]
Inviting aromas of finger lime, bergamot, lemon balm, with a touch of gunflint. On the palate, there's lovely juicy fruit, lemon verbena hints, citrus pith and a wet stone texture, leading to a saline finish.

[190]
This wine showcases a generosity of fruit, leaning towards the stone fruit spectrum, with layers of spicy ginger and cool wet slate or flinty mineral notes. The palate is rich and textured, with warming spice nuances of ginger and turmeric, leading to a leesy, lingering finish. Very elegant.

[191]
Heady phenolic style with wild herbs, citrus and pea shoots. Zippy and vibrant, showcasing classic Sauvignon Blanc typicity. Energetic and juicy with tropical fruit, wet stone minerality and a long, lively finish.

[192]
Fruity nose with citrus, fresh herbs and floral lift. Broad, rounded and crisp acidity with a pleasing, dry finish. Straightforward with modest character and intensity.

[193]
Thirst-slaking with soaring notes of crushed stone and smoky grilled lemon wedge. The palate is lean, with white pepper, sea salt, and lemon grass, rich with juicy Meyer lemon pulp and a crunchy mineral finish.

[194]
A lovely expression offering aromas of tropical melon and wildflowers. The medium-bodied palate delivers impressive fruit density balanced by elegant sea spray and lemon verbena notes. Grippy acidity drives the wine forward, culminating in a ginger-spiced finish that lingers with energy and precision.

[195]
Elegant passionfruit and gooseberry with an undercut of lime. Good intensity on the palate with a punch of juicy, crunchy texture on the back palate. Lemon and lime, honey and spice, gentle tropical flavours with white, juicy peaches, the purity is superb. Good freshness and length.

[196]
The 2022 Knights Bridge Point de Chevalier Sauvignon Blanc is a bright blend of floral and fruity notes. It opens with aromas of lemon blossom, white flowers, citrus peel, white peaches, nectarines, and a hint of green guava. It keeps a fresh and vibrant profile. A salty finish brings everything together, making this a quite pretty Sauvignon Blanc.

[197]
Youthful nose, lightly peachy. The palate is firm, mineral and savoury, with an expanding mid-palate and a lightly tannic texture. Very young now, it is textured, savoury and interesting.

[198]
A classic expression of flint ('silex') soils, it's full-bodied, with an intensely mineral personality and a compelling, almost-sour lemony, stony acidity. Structured and simply delicious.

[199]
Some herbal elements on the nose with peach, lime and a hint of mango, white chocolate and vanilla. Lovely weight and body, enough to be mouth filling and give some density and concentration on the palate. Lively, supple, a great richness and a touch of sweetness that gives it roundness while the Sauvignon Blanc adds crisp apple and green stone fruit. The focus on the freshness and acidity really counters the ripe fruit.

[200]
Has a smoky, savoury nose and firm minerality, with an attractive pink grapefruit character. The wine is deliciously balanced and fresh.

