WHITE — Cluster 3: Full-bodied, generous whites with honeyed stone fruit weight
686 wines total | 200 sampled
============================================================

[1]
Fresh and focussed, this has an instant push of lemon, mango and peach fruit with a slight honeyed aspect, not thick but not super lean or austere either. Somewhat rich with a creamy finish. Calm and controlled, will be easy drinking.

[2]
Medium-bodied, restrained white wine with a degree of drinkability and crispness that is fairly unusual for the southern Rhône. Fresh, with a crisp citrussy flourish on the finish.

[3]
This white Bordeaux blend is abundant with lemon blossom, coriander stalk, pea shoot, a little crushed nutmeg, cedar dust and apricot kernel. The palate is silken and complete, oak adding a textural weave to the plump and full-flavoured fruit, but also a glossy, delicate frankincense perfume. There is plenty of enjoyment and refreshment right now, but there's also reward ahead, maturing to nutty and tertiary complexity, for those who wait.

[4]
Extremely spicy and a bit dried out on the palate, with hints of autumn leaves. Slightly more acidity than a typical vintage, and a touch of tannin, this is a much drier, more tense and serious style. Still has energy, but the young fruits are starting to fade away now. Might be too old for some tastes, but is far from over the hill.

[5]
Full, broad and ripe yet showing restraint too with just a light breath of thiols, this is juicy and super-intense. The balance is there though, and the acidity sits well within the frame. Very well modulated and surprisingly drinkable, this should also age very well.

[6]
Good sense of freshness on the nose, white flowers and pear gradually emerge with air. Good weight and concentration, this is well balanced, with a strong sense of Rhône typicity. Generous, with a gently unctuous texture and a positive bitter nip to finish.

[7]
Distinctly perfumed, there's a touch of violet and honeysuckle on the nose. Powerfully flavoured, the oak is rich, bringing double cream, tobacco and an opulent, slightly oily mouthfeel. This is very rich and ripe, with gently warming alcohol. It needs drinking now, but delivers a lot of pleasure and a long finish.

[8]
Marzipan and pear on the nose, then it's full-bodied and rich on the palate, which is lush but energetic. Enough acidity to underpin the fruit, the alcohol is present; a rich example of this cuvée, which can be a relatively lean white Hermitage.

[9]
A charming nose of honeysuckle, white peach and white florals. There's good weight and intensity in the mouth, and lots of spice. Fairly opulent, full-flavoured, with a salty, mineral, high acid finish.

[10]
Apricot, lime and lemon, creamy and cool, this has a nice weight and texture, lacking a little more vibrancy, feels a tad sombre but I like the freshness and the sense of purity. Just missing some more acidity, more of a gourmande feel in terms of weight but gentle in terms of fruit expression.

[11]
There's a little copper touch to the colour. Fresh pear and sugared almond scents. Medium-bodied, just dry enough, and a little grippiness to the texture. Well balanced.

[12]
Considerable struck-match reduction on opening. Full-bodied, with lots of puppy fat. It's still fresh, though, with more struck match and smoky bacon notes on the palate, running through to a long finish.

[13]
Full-bodied, rich and opulent style, very ripe and fulsome. Some mango and pineapple juice. Unmistakably southern Rhône, this is quite a mouthful, but it's remarkably balanced considering, with a tensile core.

[14]
A highly exuberant style of white Luberon, the aromas burst forth with pear, grapefruit and white flowers. It's generous, medium- to full-bodied, with good concentration of fruit. The gentle zesty acidity runs through it, providing balance, length, and drinkability into a long finish.

[15]
Intense and fresh, clean, ripe, expressive. Well structured and defined by precision. Not complex, nor very long, but a textbook wine for approaching young Godello. The lees are a bit too obvious.

[16]
Subtle hazelnut and peach aromas. Slight oxidative notes with an enjoyable texture. Long and fresh, with good minerality on the finish.

[17]
This has a citrussy intensity on the nose that has a mouthwatering effect. It's there on the palate too, to a lesser extent. This has some inner tension and subtle salinity. Very full-bodied and opulent on the palate, with depth and concentration. A powerful, bold Condrieu.

[18]
This reveals elegant saline aromas with green apple and a touch of quince. The oak adds some volume and structure, complimenting the somewhat waxy texture. A muscular white, both fresh and intense.

[19]
Quite a rich, full-bodied, unoaked style, with a marked fragrance of grapefruit, and a lingering zestiness on the finish. Almost exotic in character, this would happily withstand quite robust flavours, even some spice.

[20]
An expressive, juicy, relatively soft style of white Hermitage this year. It's likely to be a relatively supple vintage, with gentle acidity and rich fruit.

[21]
Very spicy aromatics of cumin, turmeric and fenugreek – like an Indian spice market. Then full-bodied but not excessively so. Very dry, very spicy, really open and expressive now, with impressive complexity. Good energy, with length and depth. Marzipan, tobacco, rich poached pear and vanilla pod on the finish.

[22]
This really displays the power and cut of the vintage. Focused and linear on the palate, with good acidity, it's less fleshy, more direct and energetic than typical. Enjoyable salted caramel and saline effect on the palate, with exceptional length.

[23]
Salted caramel, honey, lemon, lanolin and pineapple on the nose. Totally ripe but amazing aromatic intensity and bright acidity on this. It's cool and clean, but wow, a great core of juicy sweetness and really racy acidity but balanced together so that they compliment each other rather than compete. Round, forward and focussed. Incredible intensity but also drinkability.

[24]
A very clear and detailed expression, with fennel, aniseed and grapefruit notes. It's zesty and tense, with good acidity and freshness, a sense of direction and focus, and a tapered finish.

[25]
Rich, buttery aromas. Concentrated saline and citrus acidity, a touch of margarita lime and salt. Acidity has an almost mouth puckering dryness on the finish after the ripe fruit. Camomile, orange blossom, oolong tea and subtle oak spice. Nutty development. Balance of primary and tertiary characters. Bright acidity and a long finish. Intense, honeyed citrus fruit wrapped in creamy oak. There's plenty of power and weight, but the acidity provides balance. Layered, evolved and complex, but just a little heavy and oaky.

[26]
Not as immediately opulent aromatically, a little toastier than usual. Very full-bodied with noble bitterness. The oak makes itself known on the finish, but it's all in good balance for the wine. Feels fairly dry, not quite such a rich and exotic style as usual.

[27]
Such a lovely nose, really fresh, with disarming aromas of apricot, lemon thyme and pear. Great freshness and vibrancy on the palate, with quite marked acidity. Lime cordial notes too. Great balance between freshness, intensity and fruit concentration, without excess oak.

[28]
Lovely pear fruit. Has weight, depth but also freshness. Acidity is a touch low, but it has a good, mineral, stony and dry finish.

[29]
Very rounded and generous for a Côtes du Rhône white, with bags of Viognier character to the fore. Fresh, with real intensity and freshness.

[30]
Still lots of apricot and peach fruit on the nose, and still fresh and floral. Full-bodied, with further wonderful apricot fruits alongside lavender honey on the palate, which is long. Maintains the richness and fruit of white Châteauneuf even at 25 years of age – so young, attractive and appealing.

[31]
Wonderful, minty nose. Then full-bodied and generous on the palate, but it still has real focus. So vibrant and pulsating with energy. It's long, balanced and fresh but still has the Châteauneuf largesse.

[32]
Fennel and iodine notes on the nose bring some interest here. It's generous and full-bodied, with a sense of freshness despite the fairly low acidity. The balance comes from inner tension, subtle salinity and noble bitters.

[33]
The aromas show a touch of tobacco with dried apricots, then flowers with air. It's quite broad and fat on the palate, with remarkable acidity. Although it's generous, it's also saline and fresh.

[34]
Notes of dried pear come forth on this rich, full-bodied wine. It's a deeply textural wine, without the same degree of noticeable oak influence as the Clairette, though it still has some oak spice notes on the finish. A firm, powerful, muscular style of Roussanne. Great depth, and a sonorous, echoing finish.

[35]
Lovely perfume, very bright and attractive. Full-bodied, acidity is fairly low but not unbalanced, with a good sense of brightness to the pear flavours. A wine that combines richness and texture with freshness. Good density, with a mineral drive and brioche notes on the finish.

[36]
A touch of reduction on the nose, this soon recedes to make room for enticing notes of garrigue flowers like cistus and broom, as well as hawthorn, thyme and laurel. The palate is chewy and textural, with a hint of sweet florals but ultimately this is about minerals and savoury depth. Remarkable freshness, balance and minerality.

[37]
Some notable oak aromas slightly mask the ripe, apricotty fruit and notes of celery and parsnip. The palate is a little syrupy but there's rich fruit at the core and good length. A touch of lemon candy and honey on the finish betrays a little heat. A rich style with some Viognier inflections.

[38]
This is a relatively full-bodied wine, with a pear and quince profile, slightly tingling acidity and salinity, and a touch of pink grapefruit. It's certainly powerful, but it has good freshness and a mineral edge. The very long finish is lifted by the Bourboulenc and Piquepoul.

[39]
Floral and delicate with a touch of creaminess, lime blossom, a little simple but there's a good cotton freshness, some laurel and herbal bitterness.

[40]
Floral, with abundant aromas of fresh fennel fronds. It's full-bodied, rounded and plump in the mouth, the fruit is rendered quite savoury. Classically Clairette and very elegant. This has the freshness and balance to live for a long time.

[41]
This wine remains strikingly ripe and broad, showing full-bodied richness that surprises even after all these years. Underpinned by lacy acidity, it layers in freshness alongside nuances of quince, pear, and soft vanilla. Generous melon fruit and the wine's impressive grip on the finish suggest it still has the structure to age for another decade or more. Profound.

[42]
Fresh and floral with a hint of fennel. Full-bodied but shot through with a lemony acidity that helps to balance out its opulence and lengthen the finish.

[43]
Lime leaf and tobacco aromas. The oak work is quite noticeable here, but it makes for an enjoyable, intense and focused wine, and it lengthens the finish. Not overly full-bodied, ripe or alcoholic in what can be a rich vintage, but this should age with interest.

[44]
A fresh and elegant Viognier. Impressive varietal typicity but a good level of acidity too. Its length belies its relatively modest price.

[45]
Provides more intense aromas and a very harmonious expression, while keeping a genuine Basque expression. Shows evidence of lees ageing, while keeping amazing freshness. Totally original and a benchmark for continental Biskaiko Txakoli, very different to its Atlantic cousins.

[46]
Honeysuckle and melon complement the rich oak. Lovely integration on the palate with some minerality, zesty orange and tropical fruit notes. Concentrated and suave with personality and flair; finishes quite long.

[47]
A particularly fresh and zippy style of southern Rhône white. Has a certain greenness to the aroma; green apple and grapefruit to the central pear. Medium- to full-bodied, fresh and tangy with good citrussy acidity and some length. Zesty lime on the finish.

[48]
Not terribly expressive on the nose, but long and focused. The oak works as a tight corset, shaping the wine and pulling in any excess weight. Remarkably fresh and vibrant, with a tight mineral seam and a little dab of fresh cream on the long finish, alongside fresh pear and nutmeg.

[49]
Slight nutty note on the nose, not overly aromatic. But the palate is neat and fresh, elegant and satin-textured. The oak is well applied, it shapes the wine and provides a touch of spice to the long finish.

[50]
Apricot, peach and nectarine; this has good fruit intensity and a full, opulent palate. The acidity just about cuts through, contributing to a long finish. Juicy and fleshy, drinkable and delicious – drink it young.

[51]
This is a really smart wine holding up well with age. The palate lacks a little concentration but attractive salinity and grainy oak keep things lively. A well-made wine that offers a fresh, aged interpretation of the variety.

[52]
Appealing, fresh and zesty style of Viognier. Floral and peachy, opulent and generous of body with plentiful puppy fat. Good acidity, making for a drinkable style. Saline note on the finish.

[53]
A direct and impactful wine with salinity, freshness and acidity. It's not weighty, but has real energy and focus. Medium length, with marzipan and pear notes, a fresh finish and appealing oak spice – but the oak is applied with expertise. An excellent, complete wine.

[54]
Some baked lemon and peach aspects, the focus is not on acidity but layers and weight to the palate with some honeyed, sage and apple aspects but less overt oak. This has dashes of citrus fruit which lift the rich Semillon texture - this is gourmet and much more serious than some razor sharp, more bright but less complex whites from this vintage.

[55]
A bright and expressive nose that combines stone fruit, citrus and flowers – very appealing. Voluminous but not fat, displaying good concentration and firm acidity running through it. Fresh and expressive.

[56]
Strong smoky bacon and struck-match characters here, leading to a medium-bodied palate. This has more freshness than most white Châteauneufs, it has detail and pep. On the palate it's quite richly fruited, with citrusy acidity. Not too full, this is one of the more successful white cuvées this year.

[57]
This 2021 Illumination is lovely and just starting to show some darker fruit character, a bit richer than the 2023, with lemon oil and salted Marcona almonds, alongside a hint of vanilla bean skin and honeysuckle notes. Medium to full-bodied, with salted Meyer lemon peel and orange essence, complemented by lingering hints of subtle brown spices and dried herbs. Long and wonderfully enticing. So dangerously easy to drink.

[58]
Smells dark and heady, blackcurrants and black cherries with hints of dark floral scents and dark chocolate. High acidity counters the expectation of more richness from the nose, there's some weight here but lots of freshness and acidity keeping this lifted. Soft chalky, mineral texture, a bit of grip around the mouth giving the weight on the tongue. Clean and clear on the finish but with interest.

[59]
A very attractive Viognier with plenty of those characteristic apricot kernel/Hunza apricot flavours that typify the variety, and an appealing touch of muskiness. Nice texture and weight without the heaviness.

[60]
Lovely jasmine aromas. Full-bodied, but not overly fat or heavy – it has great tension and energy. This is a very pure, linear and focused style of Condrieu, with serious intensity and drive, and good length. The oak work is smart and there's an inner sweetness to the fruit.

[61]
Shimmering golden, and then the aromas are delightful: cooked plums, preserved lemons, dark honey and a real savoury note of cumin and menthol. Full bodied, silky, with just a bit of grip, this shows coriander, coffee and white pepper notes into the finish.

[62]
Aromas of pear, and more specifically pear skin, with just a touch of that earthy, musky Williams pear note. Notes of cedar too, from the oak, and it marries well with the fruit, it's unobtrusive. Breadth and weight on the palate, and a touch of vanilla. Oily and generous in body, with a little spicy lift on the long finish. Good varietal character and good balance. Could age with interest.

[63]
A delightfully original blend (Turruntés and Maturana Blanca), which makes for a fine original white. Don't expect bold aromatics – Turruntés has nothing to do with Argentina's scented Torrontés. The wine is medium bodied, with a fine citrus undertone and notes of herbs.

[64]
Citrus, ginger and tobacco notes on the nose. This is a fairly full and rich style of white Luberon, with a silky palate that also shows citrus peel, and a tangy citrus acidity. The oak work is well judged, making for a very food-friendly style of white Luberon.

[65]
A restrained, neat style of Viognier, with a good sense of brightness and tension. Subtle violet and white pepper note. Good acidity, teamed with a touch of positive bitterness, helps to balance the alcohol. No great length, but this is very good nonetheless.

[66]
A fresh, soft, floral and easygoing style showing the pretty and delicate side of the grape with light pear, red apple and subtle smoke characters. Generous but drinkable, and drink it young for its attractive floral style.

[67]
Mature, oxidative nose with notes of bitter honey. There's great power on the palate, which starts and finishes with the punchy, sweet intensity of caramelised fruit.

[68]
Almond and white flowers. A fresh and focused style, the oak is quite present, but it does help shape the wine. Balanced acidity, fresh and saline. Powerful without overt flamboyance.

[69]
There's a real sense of freshness to the aromas and a softness to the palate, showing great Clairette character. It has impressive acidity and length for the variety too. It's appealing and attractive, a very good example of pure Clairette, with Châteauneuf stature.

[70]
This is a full-bodied, creamy and generous style of white Châteauneuf, oaked but not overoaked. Enjoyably tense, with good length and balance, and it's fresh despite the low acidity, as the alcohol is in check.

[71]
A serious white with lemon zest, lemongrass and grapefruit aromas with hints of vanilla. This has excellent acidity but also a weight in the mouth, juicy but viscous with a lift at the end.

[72]
Strong aromatics, on the expressive side with herbal accents, spiced wood, green apple, quince, apricot, mango, peach honeycomb and elderflower. Very floral. Fresh and expansive, mineral and direct, but a good body full of fruit, freshness and honey characters. More opulent and exotic with hints of tropical fruit - pineapple and mango but also some lovely bitterness which adds tension to balance it out. Succulent and sumptuous with salinity. More vibrancy and energy than in previous years.

[73]
Crème anglaise and pineapple. Lovely acidity, very fresh, very intense. Oak is present but well balanced, lending some shape and complexity. Really shows its class this year. Very long finish, an exceptional St-Péray. Such drive and salinity.

[74]
Fresh pear, with quite marked spicy oak maturation. It has bright acidity, and is fresh and well balanced, with good line and length. Impressive length and vibrancy, in fact. More weight and fat than many white Gigondas, with more immediate fruit.

[75]
Not quite as structured as some, this is very ripe and fruity, with plenty of puppy fat. Lovely ripe, rich mango fruit, this is for drinking young. It doesn't quite have the same freshness that it exhibited from barrel, but still offers great value.

[76]
Fresh and floral with pear drop flavours on the nose and palate. It has good acidity and defined lemon and apple flavours. This is softer than some, more creamy and round. It's subtle and not overly showy but with a nice lift at the end.

[77]
Intense Marmite aromas with ginger, Turkish delight and complex, aromatic curry and funky oxidative notes. Full-bodied, opulent, spiced and powerful, with smoky bacon notes and a wild, alcohol-driven finish.

[78]
Mellow orchard fruit, honeyed lemon and acacia aromas provide a seductive intro to this Viognier. Accomplished, even a little showy, with vanilla and spice flavours, and there's good breadth on the palate; a flowing torrent of golden fruit.

[79]
Pronounced struck-match reduction. Fresh aromas of petrichor and dried honey that are repeated on the tense, fresh, saline palate. Very measured oak use and this has that limestone buzz of acidity, plus a long finish. Should age with interest.

[80]
Very clean, with zesty and white-fruit aromas, quite powerful, rich and very expressive. An ambitious wine – and an interesting alternative to the mineral styles of other top wines in the appellation.

[81]
Medium straw-gold, this is darker than usual in colour. The nose shows robust peach and apricot aromas with just a trace of honey. Despite the modest alcohol, this seems quite rich and unctuous, with no lack of botrytis. There's weight without heaviness and an enticing creaminess. The fruit is certainly attractive but the acidity is less than optimal so it does lack some length. It's holding up well with good concentration on the finish, which shows some ripe citrus flavours as well as peach.

[82]
A subtle perfumed note is embedded in the pear and apricot fruit. It's full-bodied and fairly rich, towards opulence on the palate, with ripe, fresh pear notes on the finish. The acidity is fairly low, making for a rich mouthful, but it has a fresh feel in the mouth. Touch of nuttiness on the finish.

[83]
A sleek version of Godello, more focused on texture than on aromatic expression. Great acidity, high extraction and lots of elegance. More hedonistic than complex. Finish is long and a bit narrow, but very well-defined. Lovely, subtle bitterness on the finish.

[84]
There's a touch of cream and hazelnut to the pear fruit. It's full-bodied, powerful, it has a long finish. Certainly a rich and opulent style, with quite firm bitterness helping to create balance.

[85]
Bright apricot flavours. Neat and well balanced, this is a very fresh and drinkable style of St-Joseph with tension and vibrancy.

[86]
Fresh and expressive, very full-bodied and opulent on the palate. There's a hint of inner sweet ripeness to the mango and quince core, the alcohol is a little raised perhaps, but this has great length and generosity. There's a lot to enjoy here.

[87]
Perfumed on the nose, it's further lifted by some fresh oak notes, like vanilla pod. Good sense of cooling freshness on the palate, the oak is well integrated. Silky, fine and fresh, even if the acidity is fairly low. Needs time to open up but will be very good with some time in bottle.

[88]
This is a particularly lovely, fresh, balanced and enjoyable St-Péray. Perfect line, length and precision. Subtle pear fruit, white flowers; just delightful. Drink young.

[89]
Macadamia and preserved lemon aromas introduce this white Rhône style. It's medium- to full-bodied, with good freshness and energy. The oak is present on both nose and palate, but the strength of the fruit meets it, and the lemony flavours rise on the finish. There's a long finish.

[90]
A lime-tinged aromatic display. On the palate, more fresh lime peel and lime cordial notes, lime flower and freshening acidity. Plump, juicy and extremely appealing.

[91]
Very rich, with mango sorbet and apricot flavours. It's fresh but the acidity is low, with a slightly jellied, gummy texture.

[92]
Dried herbs and lemon rind, some bitter touches on the nose. This is immediately so satisfying on the palate, rich and honeyed, thick and sugary but not heavy at all. It's like a burst of sherbet before the glorious fresh, ripe fruit comes flooding in, like a fruit salad compote - a mix of white and green fruit all mingling together. So juicy and alive, structured and so intense yet perfectly balanced and harmoniously presented. Complex but not overdone. You don't necessarily want to sit and think about this wine, just drink it down and enjoy. A wine that just makes you smile. Electric and absolutely glorious.

[93]
Honeysuckle and lime flower, with lovely naturalistic acidity. Lovely in 2023 due to its delicious freshness and drinkability.

[94]
Sweet honey and peach on the nose. Rich saline notes and creamy weight provide lovely energy and freshness throughout. Bright, balanced and focused.

[95]
With its peach, citrus rinds and green apple, this is clean, clear and vivid. Surprisingly full-bodied with ample puppy fat and a full, rich mouthfeel, it's all driven by citrussy acidity, which extends the finish. A firm and confident style.

[96]
Aromas of cream soda, vanilla oak and fresh cream, this is a rich style that caresses the palate with its lightly oily textured. It has a powerful finish, the oak and alcohol in balance, and a mineral freshness. Naturally powerful.

[97]
Attractive fresh yellow apple scents with floral notes, brioche and cinnamon – it's spring fresh. It's only medium-bodied on the palate, with good acidity and a gentle, cleansing mineral seam and a touch of meringue. The oak is well judged, the finish long and floral.

[98]
A fresh zesty white, with harmonious, lifted herbal and floral-edged aromas. Electrifying acidity on the palate – real verve and freshness – that's balanced by gently honeyed, herbal flavours, minerality, salinity and zesty grapefruit notes. Juicy, mouthwatering finish. Classy and characterful.

[99]
Very young still, but it's promising. Still quite tight, but the balance and freshness suggest this will come together well. Yellow plum and pineapple flavour, all inlaid with tobacco and incense.

[100]
The 2011 vintage produced opulent, very precise wines; this has vibrancy and freshness to balance the rich apricot and citrus aromas and flavours.

[101]
A rich and ripe vintage, with a touch of honeyed nuttiness from the oak. It's a generous style, rounded and very deep in fruit. The alcohol feels a little more elevated than a typical vintage, but it has concentration and depth. Slight grapefruit bitters on the finish.

[102]
Copper and gold touches to the colour, remarkably clear and bright. Spicy in style – cumin, coriander seed and saffron. Fresh and vibrant overall. The acidity is noticeable and nicely balanced. Amazing lightness, medium-bodied, saline and fresh.

[103]
This six-variety blend tends charmingly towards those emblematic garrigue herbs, showing distinct notes of thyme and rosemary. It's also got this saline, iodine edge, and then opens out into more white florals and white fleshy fruit.

[104]
This has an initial offering of well integrated spicy oak. It's full bodied, with rich pear and quince fruit, and a balanced acidity giving good...

[105]
Full-bodied, rich, plenty of concentration that's matched with acidity and energy. Powerful, intense style with a light mineral touch on the finish. This nonetheless has little spice notes deeply inlaid. Very good.

[106]
Convincing straight away, this has a sense of richness, but it's restrained too. It feels harmonious, well balanced. The acidity works with the subtle bitter note to bring a good sense of cut. Classic white Crozes-Hermitage.

[107]
This is a really classy take on the drowsy, stone-fruited appeal of white Rhône, with a mouth-coating, almost waxy feel, and baked apple, fresh, ripe apricot and strawberry fruit, given juicy freshness and great drinkability by a trickle of cool acidity.

[108]
Concentrated, rich and opulent, more fruit than many in 2024. Powerful, with good length and purity, this is focused, saline and intense, showing citrus peels on the finish.

[109]
Saline and mineral on the nose, this offers a creaminess from time in oak and bottle, and an appealing generosity on the palate. Toasty oak notes, although obvious, add weight and richness. A generous and inviting wine.

[110]
Aromas of citrus-flecked fennel lead to a gentle, easy-going palate, with plenty of puppy fat. It's remarkably saline and has good length of creamy pear fruit. Authentic and drinkable.

[111]
A fine example of Marsanne with a hint of honeyed stone fruit on the palate, good weight and richness, all kept in check with bright acidity. Very clean and fresh, with plenty of complexity and concentration.

[112]
Lovely fresh, bright aromas, vibrant with notes of honeysuckle. A middleweight vintage with good acidity and a mineral edge. It's well balanced with great harmony and vivaciousness.

[113]
A touch of honey and honeycomb on the nose, some caramel, green herbs, apple and white stone fruit. Nice weight on the palate, this has some density and structure with a slightly honeyed core. Mouthwatering creamy peach with salinity, a touch of graphite and wet stones that lingers on the finish. A touch of bitterness too, but this has excellent energy and harmony with movement, subtle power and a long finish.

[114]
Rich and slightly creamy, satin textured, enjoyably ripe but not heavy. Fresh apricot, good acidity and a dry finish.

[115]
Intense aromas that leap out of the glass – dried flowers, wild grasses, yellow flowers and dried straw. Full-bodied and generous, with ample puppy fat and glycerol, deep-set acidity and noble bitter notes on the finish. Might be just a bit too fat for some tastes but for those looking for a rich style this is very good and has bags of personality.

[116]
A powerful, grand style of white St-Joseph, large in its proportions, expansive, delicious and very long. A stately white that's not as oaky as some, and not as structured as a result, but the quality is undeniable. A serious wine – so drinkable, fresh and uplifting.

[117]
Gorgeous perfumed aromas on the nose, so delicate and nuanced but really expressive. Succulent but straight, juicy and bright but keeps the tension. Sleek and just the most appealing lemon, green apple, peach and apricot flavours. This is gentle and firm with focus. Great for easy drinking, still with complexity, mouthwatering apple acidity and some cool orchard fruit flavours on the finish with a touch of lingering nuttiness.

[118]
Plenty of richness on the palate, and all the intense mineral facets you would expect from L'Ermite, both on the nose and the palate. Intensely fresh, driving, tense and salty. The oak is very present in this sample, but it's essentially well integrated. I love the steely, uncompromising texture of this wine, it's edginess just tempered by the glycerol softness. Very direct, long if not as long as some recent vintages. Aromatically this has abundant meadow flowers at this early stage.

[119]
Peach and white pear notes on the nose, clean and cool. Feels really fresh. Tangy acidity sets the tone, juicy but with a hint of tropicality but then ends clean and so cool. Pear and peach. Crystalline and easy to drink. Lovely pineapple juice and pear drops. It's not shouting, not too bright or acidic but has a lovely personality to it too. Clean but still with some fat.

[120]
Full-bodied, has weight, length, depth and beautiful freshness. Tense with an icy freshness and steeliness; structural, not fleshy. One for long ageing, this needs time.

[121]
Lovely expressiveness and typicity in this benchmark Soave. It has a core of fleshy citrus, held by a firm mineral backbone, and coated with sage, wild fennel, bayleaf and fresh almonds. Lovely saline seam on the finish.

[122]
The lean, fresh, lemon-tinged scent of this wine, flecked with tobacco and sandalwood. Really fresh and direct, focussed and intense, with plenty of energy. It will settle in time to produce a structural and complex wine.

[123]
Savoury herbals nicely frame this well-appointed Roussanne. Dried wild thyme, fennel, and anise create an aromatic display alongside subtle white florals. Unctuous on the palate, poached pears, brandied peaches and a savoury, almost saline finish give this ripe wine a nice lift.

[124]
An outspoken wine with notes of Lychees and guayaba, gentle but full body, quite suave and silky, with long and tense finish. Fruit is the most important value of this wine, but the amazing texture is also impressive.

[125]
Aromas of honey and honeysuckle. This is full-bodied, rich and powerful, showing roasted pineapple, crème pâtissière, with noble bitter notes; this is so impressive. Marzipan notes on the long finish.

[126]
Dried pear and apple skins linger on the nose, and the palate is light- to medium-bodied. This is a fresh, compact, well-balanced white with gentle acidity and good length of pear flavour. Elegant, drinkable.

[127]
Nectarine, orange and marzipan, a lovely nose that really grabs you. Has an oily, unctuous, mouth-coating texture and really concentrated flavour. Ripe and powerful even for Châteauneuf, this is assertive and explosively flavoursome. The oak doesn't occlude the intense fruit flavours. A potent, thunderous southern white.

[128]
There's a flinty, nutty note on the nose. It's really quite full-bodied, and it isn't terribly fresh despite the balanced acidity. Savoury finish, a touch of white bread. Gently warming alcohol.

[129]
Pale lemon. Quite fat, slightly soft and oily, round and gentle with some citrus freshness and some gentle minerality.

[130]
Showing energy and intensity on the palate, fresh and lively, with a lovely texture. Sappy acidity running through it, giving a natural balance and a long finish.

[131]
This is rich, opulent and luxurious, and it has a delightful satin texture. Almond and perfumed pear notes run through it to the long, creamy finish. This has real detail, freshness and depth. The oak work really adds complexity and structure. It could age with interest.

[132]
A lovely compromise between freshness and complexity. Very clean, with wild herbs and white fruit aromas. Rather round and balanced, with an expressive open finish. It will keep for at least five years.

[133]
Full-bodied, with a touch of oiliness on the palate. It has impressive concentration and freshness – a sound balance of varieties creating a harmonious white Vacqueyras with a long finish. The oak is well integrated and adds length and complexity.

[134]
The spicy character that this cuvée develops with age is starting to come out now, giving it a sense of freshness and some piquant spicing on the palate too: cumin and saffron, along with a distinctly saline slant and a touch of oak spice. Only medium-bodied, this is a very well-balanced and harmonious vintage – refined, not showy and quietly impressive.

[135]
A big, generous, billowing style, really rich and ripe, but somehow still fresh and detailed. It lands softly, despite its size. Really opulent, but so delicious.

[136]
This is serious, with heft and body, an oily quality but also a long and searching mineral character, almost minty. There's certainly a ripe and flowery side, apricot and fleshy fruit, but it holds its own against a good structure.

[137]
Floral aromas in a distinctly honeysuckle style, with subtle notes of red apple too. In the mouth it's stony, granitic and mineral, with a lovely fresh cleansing sensation on the tongue.

[138]
Soft lemon gold. Sweet oak and nut aromas. Fine saline acidity, long and piercing counterbalancing the rich weightiness of the fruit – not fruit-forward but ripe.

[139]
This medium yellow wine offers a restrained and mineral-driven expression. The nose reveals notes of citrus fruits, linden honey, honeysuckle, and a hint of blackcurrant. On the palate, it displays good tension and a noble character, with oak well-integrated and a pleasant bitterness enhancing its freshness. The finish is long and satisfying.

[140]
Soft and approachable with quince and baked custard aromas. Full-bodied, generous and rounded. It has an elegant mouthfeel with just enough acidity to keep it moving, finishing on a savoury toasty note. It has harmony, balance and personality.

[141]
Classic soft apple and pear aromas. Has the classic breadth and roundness of Grenache Blanc, and is a fluid example, not too heavy or oaky. Dusty stone-sucking finish. A very good, classic and elegant example of pure Grenache Blanc.

[142]
Light and floral style, with high-toned oak spice, good intensity and freshness, though not hugely concentrated. Only medium-bodied but very drinkable with a good sense of purity. Classic Roncharde.

[143]
Very pale in colour. Stony aromas, with stewed apple and concord pear. Quite unstructured and flowing in body, with gentle, deep-set acidity and a stony, mineral finish. Gentle tension helps hold the finish together. No excesses here, there's balanced alcohol and no overbearing oak.

[144]
Refinement exalts the fruit while curbing any extreme exuberance, corseting it in all the right places. Classic peach and apricot, while lavender, camomile and beeswax add complexity. Round and sumptuous with countering acidity and a positively succulent finish.

[145]
Quite a savoury style, with fennel, aniseed and pear, and a touch of saffron on the palate. It has good acidity, balanced use of oak and a long finish. This is a textural, deep and fairly powerful style of white Châteauneuf.

[146]
Citrus zest, nice texture and weight here, really classy and refined but still with a filling mouthfeel and cool freshness. Mouthwatering acidity, sherbet elements with a real grip in the mouth. Great ageing potential with aromatic and flavour intensity.

[147]
Round, full, compelling, charming and confident, this has a width and density that is really well worked, calm, not super vibrant but really rich in terms of fruit expression with coolness, white stone fruit flavours and some subtle toasting. Feels structured and well worked, serious but not as tense as many with more fruit persistence and depth than a lot of the whites this year. Perhaps missing a touch of acidity bit this is very good indeed and ends with a zestiness that is really appealing.

[148]
Very full-bodied indeed, with generous puppy fat and gently warming alcohol. Notes of fresh mango and millefeuille pastry make for a fairly lavish expression, with good concentration, though the acidity is only mild this year. The oak is well integrated, and it displays richness of texture and a luxurious nature.

[149]
Rich and ripe, a lovely intensity of lemon, green apple, pear, apricot and peach on the palate. Succulent, lively, round, juicy and weighty, lovely control and intensity of flavour. Still compact, a little shy, but layered and complex with crisp aspects as well as spiced ones giving nuance and interest. Good persistence and feeling of refinement. The sharp acidity really balances the richness of the vintage with power, opulence but control and character. A force in the glass, but very appealing.

[150]
Full-bodied, with rich pear fruit, but the acidity is very low. Nonetheless this is fresh and appealing, with some white flowers. The oak work is discreet and works well, just lending some texture and a nutty touch. Soft and easygoing, but very much of its place. An elegant style that should take on interest over time.

[151]
A ripe, fairly tropical style of Cairanne blanc, with pineapple and pear flavours. Opulent texture, but it's really fresh and lively, with good acidity. Ends dry, on a sandy mineral touch.

[152]
Rich and full-bodied in style, this has spice and hawthorn notes, alongside ripe pear and apple fruit flavours and an underlying minerality. Good grip and persistence.

[153]
Very fresh and vibrant satsuma and mango characters. Medium-bodied, fruity, well balanced and precise. Fairly long in fruit, pure and classic, with a lovely fine acid line.

[154]
Only medium-bodied, but has interest and some tightly wound aromas of chalk dust ready to uncoil. Very fresh feel on the nose and palate, and good finesse. It's closed currently but will be good in time.

[155]
Fresh, expressive, detailed and balanced. It's certainly ripe enough, with pineapple and mango flavours coming through, but not as soft as some white St-Josephs this year. For drinking young, with much pleasure.

[156]
Full-bodied, this is rich, opulent and ripe. The oak work lends some spice to the aromas and silk to the palate, but it doesn't detract from the wine's inner freshness. So it's well judged.

[157]
A fresh, vibrant, zesty style with a touch of lemon verbena. Rounded in texture, but only light- to medium-bodied, with well-balanced acidity. Fairly persistent finish. Refreshing, with tangy acidity.

[158]
Citrus nose, then soft and plump on the palate. Good concentration, length, freshness and harmony in a fruity, generous and ample style.

[159]
Gently nutty notes to the fruit, it's all quite restrained, more about texture than aromatics. There's a good sense of tension on the palate, it's very persistent, with a long, resonant finish. With impressive focus, drive, salinity and extract, this should be good in youth and in age. A real sense of completeness.

[160]
A rich and powerful white wine that displays a weight and density akin to a red wine. It displays subtle and sophisticated notes of ripe yellow fruits, hazelnuts, honeysuckle and almonds. On the palate it has weight, density and a creamy texture, as well as savoury complexity and well-judged oak. It has wonderful freshness to ensure harmony.

[161]
Ripe apricot and fresh cream with undertones of dried herbs and spices. Full-bodied with a concentrated richness of stone fruit and spicy oak on the palate. Fresh and balanced with a saline finish.

[162]
Soft, easy-going, slightly lacking in structure, this has some complexity from oak work and is enjoyably flamboyant, but drink young.

[163]
Lovely sense of freshness to this, good acidity and grip. It's quite expansive on the mid-palate, then neatens up to a precise, tapered finish. Rhubarb and pear notes, fruity and vibrant.

[164]
Soft, fruity and appealing, ripe, juicy and full of fruit. Floral too – it has a lovely fragrance. Orange oil and orange bitters, impressively long finish. Ends savoury, on a touch of brown-bread yeastiness. Impressively layered and complex wine.

[165]
Quite closed, with brown butter notes on the nose, it smells salty somehow. Still a very generous and full-bodied palate, with sweet glycerol matched with a lovely mineral side. It's beginning to show its age, but the palate is still fresh and intense, with great cut and salinity. There's a long finish, and even though it was probably better a few years ago, you can still see the class.

[166]
An enjoyable smoky mineral note on the nose follows onto the palate, with a touch of struck flint. Floral aromas too. Vibrant acidity, very fresh and focussed and finishes long. This has real drive and energy – it's a modern, brisk, energetic expression of white Châteauneuf.

[167]
Attractive pear and honeysuckle aromas. Relatively medium-bodied this year, not as rich as some vintages can be, but good acidity and the alcohol is rich but balanced. Good sense of freshness and minerality. Vivacious, delicious and long.

[168]
It's got all the peach-skin, honeysuckle fragrance required and much more. Silkiness gives it a real sense of harking back to summer days. It has a certain apricot vitality.

[169]
Pear, oatmeal and apricot notes – really fresh and appealing. Very well balanced. There's a subtle spicing that runs through the wine, bringing interest and complexity. Good balance of richness and freshness makes for an approachable and delicious wine. Will age into the medium term.

[170]
High-toned, slightly prickly, lemon-flesh aromas. Medium-bodied, but has some power, and it displays that enjoyably spiky Piquepoul acidity, but isn't as acidic as a Picpoul de Pinet for example. Has good length, and while not complex, it has an enjoyable sherbet lemon finish.

[171]
It glints lemon gold, hinting at the full body to come. Rich, oily and fat, there is complexity on the nose and palate, with white flowers, spice, ripe peach fruit, warm lemon citrus and a nutty savouriness and honeyed generosity. Displays tertiary complexity, with more to come.

[172]
Fresh pear and a touch of honey add to what is already a full-bodied, powerful expression on the palate, really intense and driving with plenty of extract. There's a great sense of freshness and power, but no great fatness on the palate – it's relatively lean in fact, and should live for a long time.

[173]
Full-bodied, rich and generous but soft and yielding on the palate. Classic St-Péray in its charm and elegance. Low acidity but fresh nonetheless.

[174]
Bold, oaky mineral nose, ripe and buttery but has a beguiling toastiness. Rich and concentrated, vigorous and spicy, bright and mineral. Very long, with an almost chewy finish. Great typicity.

[175]
Tiny touch of rose gold to the yellow colour. Spiced pink grapefruit aromas lead to a silky and smooth palate that's very elegant. There's some lovely acidity, and a deep, saline, tense finish that has great length. The oak works well, it doesn't occlude the fruit and freshness.

[176]
Floral to start, with fresh pear notes. Acidity is only mild, but the wine's sustained by a great sense of tension. Honeyed, toasty notes on the finish, with some roasted pineapple. Plump but not fat; great length, great power.

[177]
Ripe and balanced, firm but very fresh, well supported by some lees ageing which provides roundness and a long finish. Very deftly made, a Txakoli for slow drinking.

[178]
Pear and honeysuckle, with a sweet core of fruit, lovely extract and a touch of structural tannin. Ripe, fresh and well balanced, with a nutty finish – very drinkable and enjoyable.

[179]
Pale in colour, with a subtle copper hint. Fresh on the nose, still quite reticent, with gentle yuzu and pear notes. Medium-bodied, lush and mouthcoating. Powerfully flavoursome, with bright and steely acidity. Very concentrated, but nothing heavy, and finishes long, with a satin touch to the mouthfeel. Will age with interest.

[180]
This has a very authentic character that seems to come straight from the vineyard, with white floral notes, bright lemony aromas and green apple. There is a freshly cut-grass character which adds lift and interest to the palate, and the oak just brings the gentlest of spice. There's a great salinity on the finish.

[181]
An appealing, relatively light-bodied, bright and drinkable style of Vacqueyras blanc. Balanced acidity, satin texture and a fresh finish, with integrated oak around pear and starfruit flavours.

[182]
Full-bodied, not terribly structured but lovely, fresh, soft and juicy stone fruit. Long finish thanks to the concentration. Ripe, balanced, well judged and a good option if you're looking for a generous and concentrated white this year without much oak influence.

[183]
Full-bodied, rounded, with good freshness and tension on the palate. This has weight and richness, if not terribly long, although you do feel some limestone freshness on the finish. More about saltiness and acidity than fat and oak, which is welcome for a pure Roussanne.

[184]
Apple and pear aromas with a touch of florality. It's full-bodied, rich and silky on the palate, but the acidity is well balanced. There's a good sense of precision here, it's well made; but drink soon.

[185]
Classic Chenin, offering that slightly honeyed, waxy, lanolin-charged character and an oily viscosity to the body. The variety's prominent acidity is there, but the wine doesn't feel quite as fresh as it perhaps could be.

[186]
Medium yellow in the glass, taut, mineral-driven profile with notable freshness and high acidity. Yeasty and slightly closed on the nose, the palate is linear and firm, with a pronounced bitter edge that currently dominates the finish. While tight and somewhat austere now, there's clear potential for refinement with time.

[187]
Has some weight and breadth on the palate, but is only medium-bodied. Good feeling of freshness and precision. A tab of dry honey, dried pear, chamomile. Dry, stony finish.

[188]
Gooseberry, green apple, lemongrass, a hint of vanilla and verbena - lovely fragrance and aromatic on the nose. Clean and crisp. Juicy and alive, really focussed but this has such a vibrancy to it and perfect weight in the mouth. Gorgeous and because of the almost fleshy aspect you don't get any harsh acidity. No aggressivity. A stunning white wine, gorgeous density, layered but precise too, it is crisp no doubt, there's a firm line driving from start to finish with movement all the way through but then you get the expansive fruit, juiciness, soft chew and weight as well as a hint of sweetness. Fleshy peach, orange, grapefruit, lemon, apple.

[189]
Gorgeous fresh aromas of fennel. It's full-bodied, with fairly low acidity, but has a good firm finish; the acidity leaks out of the fruit to create a mouthwatering finish with a deep limestone buzz. Touch of grapefruit pith brings further interest. This is extremely good; unusually for Gigondas blanc, this is good now, but will improve in time.

[190]
Dark gold and very perfumed. Lovely perfumed elegance with quite a powerful rich structure. Quite a distinctive unique character – perfumed for an apéritif but structured for food.

[191]
This is a very powerful white Châteauneuf – textural and driving, with intensity and freshness. The oak is mostly present in texture and shape. It's very ripe but not overdone; the alcohol is in balance and the driving acidity will propel it forward; it's a savoury, saline style that will age well.

[192]
Quite restrained in fruit and certainly full-bodied, but not heavy, with an agreeably dry finish. It's very classic, with fairly low acidity and well-integrated oak that's not too prominent. Drink this as young as possible.

[193]
This is zesty and crisp, with a good sense of freshness and balance. It has length, and a subtle mineral touch. Shy and discreet for now, but will take on interest in a couple of years' time and age into the medium term.

[194]
It retains fresh sapidity combined with rich, wood-infused apricot and cream, and a saline streak which energises the whole. Still quite tight, give this time to show at its best.

[195]
The aromas are more subtle, led by citrus and orchard fruit, with white flowers and honeyed almond. There is a touch more oak presence on the palate, which carries nice weight and a silky texture, finishing with a hint of vanilla and tangerine oil.

[196]
Bright, clean, stony and fresh. Quite introverted for now, it doesn't speak of specific flavour allusions. Beautifully soft, so yielding and silky, and just the most magical texture. Beautiful mineral touch, lovely acidity and a long finish. Incredible freshness with a texture that's part porcelain, part petal; this is a special wine.

[197]
An open and fruit-forward style, bringing ripe stone fruit and tropical aromatics, a honeysuckle florally and a touch of bitter chicory leaves. Good concentration and palate weight, a little oily sensation, and a fairly full body for a white.

[198]
Very Clairette in character with its soft, floral appeal. A full, soft, pillowy style of Côtes du Rhône. The deep-set acidity rides in on the savoury finish and helps to balance. The acidity is mild, and it's slightly milky.

[199]
Aromatic and fresh, with quite a soft and easy-going palate. Fresh and lively even if the acidity is fairly mild.

[200]
Pale peach colour. Very silky and full-bodied, rich and luxurious on the palate. Bright acidity runs through the orange and peach flavours. Long finish, ending on a subtle mineral note. Wonderful mouthfeel, sweet and well balanced. Not overly aromatic. Satisfying, with inner freshness and depth.

